   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?1??

Passage 1
Many critics of Eamily Bronte’s novel Wuthering Heights see its second part as a counterpoint that comments on, if it does not reverse, the first part, where a “romantic”reading receives more confirmation.Seeing the two parts as a whole is encouraged by the novel's sophisticated structure, revealed in its complex use of narrators and time shifts. Granted that the presence of these elements need not argue an authorial awareness of novelistic construction comparable to that of Henry James, their presence does encourage attempts to unify the novel’s heterogeneous parts.
However, any interpretation that seeks to unify all of the novel's diverse elements is bound to be somewhat unconvincing. This is not because such an interpretation necessarily stiffens into a thesis (although rigidity in any interpretation of this or of any novel is always a danger), but because Wuthering Heights has recalcitrant elements of undeniable power that, ultimately, resist inclusion in an all-encompassing interpretation. In this respect, Wuthering Heights shares a feature of Hamlet.

1. According to the passage, which of the following is a true statement about the first and second parts of Wuthering Heights?
(A)The second part has received more attention from critics.
(B)The second part has little relation to the first part.
(C)The second part annuls the force of the first part.
(D)The second part provides less substantiation for a “romantic” reading.
(E)The second part is better because it is more realistic.

2. Which of the following inferences about Henry James’s awareness of no-velistic construction is best supported by the passage?
(A) James, more than any other novelist, was aware of the difficulties of novelistic construction.
(B) James, was very aware of the details of novelistic construction.
(C) James’s awareness of novelistic construction derived from his reading of Bronte.
(D) James's awareness of novelistic construction has led most commentators to see unity in his individual novels.
(E) James's awareness of novelistic construction precluded him from violating the unity of his novels.

3. The author of the passage would be most likely to agree that an interpretation of a novel should
(A) not try to unite heterogeneous elements in the novel
(B) not be inflexible in its treatment of the elements in the novel
(C) not argue that the complex use of narrators or of time shifts indicates a sophisticated structure
(D) concentrate on those recalcitrant elements of the novel that are outside the novel’s main structure
(E) primarily consider those elements of novelistic construction of which the author of the novel was aware

4. The author of the passage suggests which of the following about Hamlet?
I.Hamlet has usually attracted critical interpretations that tend to stiffen into theses.
II.Hamlet has elements that are not amenable to an all-encompassing critic-al interpretation.
III. Hamlet is less open to an all-encompassing critical interpretation th-an is Wuthering Heights.
IV. Hamlet has not received a critical interpretation that has been widely acc-epted by readers.
(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) I and IV only
(D) III and IV only
(E) I, II and III only

KEYS: DBBB


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?2??

Passage 1
Many theories have been formulated to explain the role of grazers such as zooplankton in controlling the amount of planktonic algae (phytoplankton) in lakes. The first theories of such grazer control were merely based on observations of negative correlations between algal and zoo-plankton numbers. A low number of algal cells in the presence of a high number of grazers suggested, but did not prove, that the grazers had removed most of the algae. The converse observation, of the absence of grazers in areas of high phytoplankton concentration, led Hardy to propose his principle of animal exclusion, which hypothesized that phytoplankton produced a repellent that excluded grazers from regions of high phytoplankton concentration. This was the first suggestion of algal defenses against grazing.
Perhaps the fact that many of these first studies considered only algae of a size that could be collected in a net (net phytoplankton),a practice that overlooked the smaller phytoplankton (nannoplankton)that we now know grazers are most likely to feed on, led to a deemphasis of the role of grazers in subsequent research. Increasingly, as in the individual studies of Lund, Round, and Reynolds, researchers began to stress the importance of environmental factors such as temperature, light, and water movements in controlling algal numbers. These environmental factors were amenable to field monitoring and to simulation in the laboratory. Grazing was believed to have some effect on algal numbers, especially after phytoplankton growth rates declined at the end of bloom periods, but grazing was considered a minor component of models that predicted algal population dynamics.
The potential magnitude of grazing pressure on freshwater phytoplankton has only recently been determined empirically. Studies by Hargrave and Geen estimated natural community grazing rates by measuring feeding rates of individual zoo-plankton species in the laboratory and then computing community grazing rates for field conditions using the known population density of grazers. The high estimates of grazing pressure postulated by these researchers were not fully accepted, however, until the grazing rates of zooplankton were determined directly in the field, by means of new experimental techniques.
Using a specially prepared feeding chamber, Haney was able to record zooplankton grazing rates in natural field conditions. In the periods of peak zooplankton abundance, that is, in the late spring and in the summer, Haney recorded maximum daily community grazing rates,for nutrient poor lakes and bog lakes, respectively, of 6.6 percent and 114 percent of daily phytoplankton production. Cladocerans had higher grazing rates than copepods, usually accounting for 80 percent of the community grazing rate.These rates varied seasonally, reaching the lowest point in the winter and early spring. Haney’s thorough research provides convincing field evidence that grazers can exert significant pressure on phytoplankton population.Many theories have been formulated to explain the role of grazers such as zooplankton in controlling the amount of planktonic algae (phytoplankton) in lakes.

1. The author most likely mentions Hardy’s principle of animal exclusion in order to
(A) give an example of one theory about the interaction of grazers and phytoplankton
(B) defend the first theory of algal defenses against grazing
(C) support the contention that phytoplankton numbers are controlled primarily by environmental factors
(D) demonstrate the superiority of laboratory studies of zooplankton feeding rates to other kinds of studies of such rates

2. It can be inferred from the passage that the “first theories” of grazer control mentioned in line 4 would have been more convincing if researchers had been able to
(A) observe high phytoplankton numbers under natural lake conditions
(B) discover negative correlations between algae and zooplankton numbers from their field research
(C) understand the central importance of environmental factors in controlling the growth rates of phytoplankton (D) make verifiable correlations of cause and effect between zooplankton and phytoplankton numbers
(E) invent laboratory techniques that would have allowed them to bypass their field research concerning grazer control

3. Which of the following, if true, would call into question Hardy’s principle of animal exclusion?
(A) Zooplankton are not the only organisms that are affected by phytoplankton repellents.
(B) Zooplankton exclusion is unrelated to phytoplankton population density.
(C) Zooplankton population density is higher during some parts of the year than during others.
(D) Net phytoplankton are more likely to exclude zooplankton than are nannoplankton.
(E) Phytoplankton numbers can be strongly affected by environmetnal factors.

KEYS: ADB
 

   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?3??

Passage 1
  Many theories have been formulated to explain the role of grazers such as zooplankton in controlling the amount of planktonic algae (phytoplankton) in lakes. The first theories of such grazer control were merely based on observations of negative correlations between algal and zooplankton numbers. A low number of algal cells in the presence of a high number of grazers suggested, but did not prove, that the grazers had removed most of the algae. The converse observation, of the absence of grazers in areas of high phytoplankton concentration, led Hardy to propose his principle of animal exclusion, which hypothesized that phytoplankton produced a repellent that excluded grazers from regions of high phytoplankton concentration. This was the first suggestion of algal defenses against grazing.
  Perhaps the fact that many of these first studies considered only algae of a size that could be collected in a net (net phytoplankton),a practice that overlooked the smaller phytoplankton (nannoplankton)that we now know grazers are most likely to feed on, led to a deemphasis of the role of grazers in subsequent research. Increasingly, as in the individual studies of Lund, Round, and Reynolds, researchers began to stress the importance of environmental factors such as temperature, light, and water movements in controlling algal numbers. These environmental factors were amen-able to field monitoring and to simulation in the laboratory. Grazing was believed to have some effect on algal numbers, especially after phytoplankton growth rates declined at the end of bloom periods, but grazing was considered a minor component of models that predicted algal population dynamics.
  The potential magnitude of grazing pres-sure on freshwater phytoplankton has only recently been determined empirically. Studies by Hargrave and Geen estimated natural community grazing rates by measuring feeding rates of individual zoo-plankton species in the laboratory and then computing community grazing rates for field conditions using the known population density of grazers. The high estimates of grazing pressure postulated by these researchers were not fully accepted, however, until the grazing rates of zooplankton were determined directly in the field, by means of new experimental techniques.
  Using a specially prepared feeding chamber, Haney was able to record zooplankton grazing rates in natural field conditions. In the periods of peak zooplankton abundance, that is, in the late spring and in the summer, Haney recorded maximum daily community grazing rates, for nutrient poor lakes and bog lakes, respectively, of 6.6 percent and 114 percent of daily phytoplankton production. Cladocerans had higher grazing rates than copepods, usually accounting for 80 percent of the community grazing rate. These rates varied seasonally, reaching the lowest point in the winter and early spring. Haney’s thorough research provides convincing field evidence that grazers can exert significant pressure on phytoplankton population.
1. The author most likely mentions Hardy’s principle of animal exclusion in order to
(A) give an example of one theory about the interaction of grazers and phytoplankton
(B) defend the first theory of algal defenses against grazing
(C) support the contention that phytoplankton numbers are controlled primarily by environmental factors
(D) demonstrate the superiority of laboratory studies of zooplankton feeding rates to other kinds of studies of such rates
2. It can be inferred from the passage that the “first theories” of grazer control mentioned in line 4 would have been more convincing if researchers had been able to
(A) observe high phytoplankton numbers under natural lake conditions
(B) discover negative correlations between algae and zooplankton numbers from their field research
(C) understand the central importance of environmental factors in controlling the growth rates of phytoplankton
(D) make verifiable correlations of cause and effect between zooplankton and phytoplankton numbers
(E) invent laboratory techniques that would have allowed them to bypass their field research concerning grazer control
3. Which of the following, if true, would call into question Hardy’s principle of animal exclusion?
(A) Zooplankton are not the only organisms that are affected by phytoplankton repellents.
(B) Zooplankton exclusion is unrelated to phytoplankton population density.
(C) Zooplankton population density is higher during some parts of the year than during others.
(D) Net phytoplankton are more likely to exclude zooplankton than are nannoplankton.
(E) Phytoplankton numbers can be strongly affected by environmental factors.
4. The author would be likely to agree with which of the following statements regarding the pressure of grazers on phytoplankton numbers?
I. Grazing pressure can vary according to the individual type of zooplankton.
II. Grazing pressure can be lower in nutrient poor lakes than in bog lakes.
III. Grazing tends to exert about the same pressure as does temperature.
(A) I only
(B) III only
(C) I and II only
(D) II and III only
(E) I, II, and III
5. The passage supplies information to indicate that Hargrave and Geen’s conclusion regarding the grazing pressure exerted by zooplankton on phytoplankton numbers was most similar to the conclusion regarding grazing pressure reached by which of the following researchers?
(A) Hardy
(B) Lund
(C) Round
(D) Reynolds
(E) Haney
6. It can be inferred from the passage that one way in which many of the early researchers on grazer control could have improved their data would have been to
(A) emphasize the effects of temperature, rather than of light, on phytoplankton
(B) disregard nannoplankton in their analysis of phytoplankton numbers
(C) collect phytoplankton of all sizes before analyzing the extent of phytoplankton concentration
(D) recognize that phytoplankton other than net phytoplankton could be collected in a net
(E) understand the crucial significance of net phytoplankton in the diet of zooplankton
7. According to the passage, Hargrave and Geen did which of the following in their experiments?
(A) They compared the grazing rates of individual zooplankton species in the laboratory with the natural grazing rates of these species.
(B) The hypothesized about the population density of grazers in natural habitats by using data concerning the population density of grazers in the laboratory.
(C) They estimated the community grazing rates of zooplankton in the laboratory by using data concerning the natural community grazing rates of zooplankton.
(D) They estimated the natural community grazing rates of zooplankton by using data concerning the known population density of phytoplankton.
(E) They estimated the natural community grazing rates of zooplankton by using laboratory data concerning the grazing rates of individual zooplankton species.
8. Which of the following is a true statement about the zooplankton numbers and zooplankton grazing rates observed in Haney’s experiments?
(A) While zooplankton numbers began to decline in August, zooplankton grazing rates began to increase.
(B) Although zooplankton numbers were high in May, grazing rates did not become high until January.
(C) Both zooplankton numbers and grazing rates were higher in December than in November.
(D) Both zooplankton numbers and grazing rates were lower in March than in June.
(E) Both zooplankton numbers and grazing rates were highest in February.

Passage 2
  Roger Rosenblatt's book Black Fiction, in attempting to apply literary rather than sociopolitical criteria to its subject, successfully alters the approach taken by most previous studies. As Rosenblatt notes, criticism of Black writing has often served as a pretext for expounding on Black history. Addison Gayle's recent work, for example, judges the value of Black fiction by overtly political standards, rating each work according to the notions of Black identity which it propounds.
  Although fiction assuredly springs from political circumstances, its authors react to those circumstances in ways other than ideological, and talking about novels and stories primarily as instruments of idology circumvents much of the fictional enterprise. Rosenblatt's literary analysis discloses affinities and connections among works of Black fiction which solely political studies have overlooked or ignored.
  Writing acceptable criticism of Black fiction, however, presupposes giving satisfactory answers to a number of questions. First of all, is there a sufficient reason, other than the racial identity of the authors, to group together works by Black authors? Second, how does Black fiction make itself distinct from other modern fiction with which it is largely contemporaneous? Rosenblatt shows that Black fiction constitutes a distinct body of writing that has an identifiable, coherent literary tradition. Looking at novels written by Blacks over the last eighty years, he discovers recurring concerns and designs independent of chronology. These structures are thematic, and they spring, not surprisingly, from the central fact that the Black characters in these novels exist in a predominantly White culture, whether they try to conform to that culture of rebel against it.
  Black Fiction does leave some aesthetic questions open. Rosenblatt's thematic analysis permits considerable objectivity; he even explicitly states that it is not his intention to judge the merit of the various works-yet his reluctance seems misplaced, especially since an attempt to appraise might have led to interesting results. For instance, some of the novels appear to be structurally diffuse. Is this a defect, or are the authors working out of, or trying to forge, a different kind of aesthetic? In addition, the style of some Black novels, like Jean Toomer's Cane, verges on expressionism or surrealism; does this technique provide a counterpoint to the prevalent theme that portrays the fate against which Black heroes are pitted, a theme usually conveyed by more naturalistic modes of expression?
  In spite of such omissions, what Rosenblatt does include in his discussion makes for an astute and worthwhile study. Black Fiction surveys a wide variety of novels, bringing to our attention in the process some fascinating and little-known works like James Weldon Johnson's Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man. Its argument is tightly constructed, and its forthright, lucid style exemplifies levelheaded and penetrating criticism.
1. The author of the passage objects to criticism of Black fiction like that by Addison Gayle because it
(A) emphasizes purely literary aspects of such fiction
(B) misinterprets the ideological content of such fiction
(C) misunderstands the notions of Black identity contained in such fiction
(D) substitutes political for literary criteria in evaluating such fiction
(E) ignores the interplay between Black history and Black identity displayed in such fiction
2. The author of the passage is primarily concerned with
(A) evaluating the soundness of a work of criticism
(B) comparing various critical approaches to a subject
(C) discussing the limitations of a particular kind of criticism
(D) summarizing the major points made in a work of criticism
(E) explaining the theoretical background of a certain kind of criticism
3. The author of the passage believes that Black Fiction would have been improved had Rosenblatt
(A) evaluated more carefully the ideological and historical aspects of Black fiction
(B) attempted to be more objective in his approach to novels and stories by Black authors
(C) explored in greater detail the recurrent thematic concerns of Black fiction throughout its history
(D) established a basis for placing Black fiction within its own unique literary tradition
(E) assessed the relative literary merit of the novels he analyzes thematically
4. The author's discussion of Black Fiction can be best described as
(A) pedantic and contentious
(B) critical but admiring
(C) ironic and deprecating
(D) argumentative but unfocused
(E) stilted and insincere
5. It can be inferred that the author of the passage would be LEAST likely to approve of which of the following?
(A) An analysis of the influence of political events on the personal ideology of Black writes
(B) A critical study that applies sociopolitical criteria to autobiographies by Black authors
(C) A literary study of Black poetry that appraises the merits of poems according to the political acceptability of their themes
(D) An examination of the growth of a distinct Black literary tradition within the context of Black history
(E) A literary study that attempts to isolate aesthetic qualities unique to Black fiction
6. The author of the passage uses all of the following in the discussion of Rosenblatt's book EXCEPT
(A) rhetorical questions
(B) specific examples
(C) comparison and contrast
(D) definition of terms
(E) personal opinion

7. The author of the passage refers to James Weldon Johnson's Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man most probably in order to (A) point out affinities between Rosenblatt's method of thematic analysis and earlier criticism
(B) clarify the point about expressionistic style made earlier in the passage
(C) qualify the assessment of Rosenblatt's book made in the first paragraph of the passage
(D) illustrate the affinities among Black novels disclosed by Rosenblatt's literary analysis
(E) give a specific example of one of the accomplishments of Rosenblatt's work
KEYS:
Passage 1: ADBCE CED
Passage 2: DAEBC DE


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?4??

Passage 1
The use of heat pumps has been held back
largely by skepticism about advertisers' claims that
heat pumps can provide as many as two units of
thermal energy for each unit of electrical energy
(5) used, thus apparently contradicting the principle of
energy conservation.
Heat pumps circulate a fluid refrigerant that
cycles alternatively from its liquid phase to its
vapor phase in a closed loop. The refrigerant,
(10) starting as a low-temperature, low-pressure vapor,
enters a compressor driven by an electric motor.
The refrigerant leaves the compressor as a hot,
dense vapor and flows through a heat exchanger
called the condenser, which transfers heat from the
(15) refrigerant to a body of air. Now the refrigerant,
as a high-pressure, cooled liquid, confronts a flow
restriction which causes the pressure to drop. As
the pressure falls, the refrigerant expands and par-
tially vaporizes, becoming chilled. It then passes
(20) through a second heat exchanger, the evaporator,
which transfers heat from the air to the refrigerant,
reducing the temperature of this second body of
air. Of the two heat exchangers, one is located
inside, and the other one outside the house, so
(25) each is in contact with a different body of air:
room air and outside air, respectively.
The flow direction of refrigerant through a heat
pump is controlled by valves. When the refrigerant
flow is reversed, the heat exchangers switch func-
(30) tion. This flow-reversal capability allows heat
pumps either to heat or cool room air.
Now, if under certain conditions a heat pump
puts out more thermal energy than it consumes in
electrical energy, has the law of energy conserva-
(35) tion been challenged? No, not even remotely: the
additional input of thermal energy into the circu-
lating refrigerant via the evaporator accounts for
the difference in the energy equation.
Unfortunately, there is one real problem. The
(40) heating capacity of a heat pump decreases as the
outdoor temperature falls. The drop in capacity is
caused by the lessening amount of refrigerant mass
moved through the compressor at one time. The
heating capacity is proportional to this mass flow
(45) rate: the less the mass of refrigerant being com-
pressed, the less the thermal load it can transfer
through the heat-pump cycle. The volume flow
rate of refrigerant vapor through the single-speed
rotary compressor used in heat pumps is approxi-
(50) mately constant. But cold refrigerant vapor enter-
ing a compressor is at lower pressure than warmer
vapor. Therefore, the mass of cold refrigerant-
and thus the thermal energy it carries-is less than
if the refrigerant vapor were warmer before com-
(55) pression.
Here, then, lies a genuine drawback of heat
pumps: in extremely cold climates-where the
most heat is needed-heat pumps are least able to
supply enough heat.


1. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) explain the differences in the working of a heat pump when the outdoor temperature changes
(B) contrast the heating and the cooling modes of heat pumps
(C) describe heat pumps, their use, and factors affecting their use
(D) advocate the more widespread use of heat pumps
(E) expose extravagant claims about heat pumps as false

2. The author resolves the question of whether heat pumps run counter to the principle of energy conservation by
(A) carefully qualifying the meaning of that principle
(B) pointing out a factual error in the statement that gives rise to this question
(C) supplying additional relevant facts
(D) denying the relevance of that principle to heat pumps
(E) explaining that heat pumps can cool, as well as heat, room air

3. It can be inferred from the passage that, in the course of a heating season, the heating capacity of a heat pump is greatest when
(A) heating is least essential
(B) electricity rates are lowest
(C) its compressor runs the fastest
(D) outdoor temperatures hold steady
(E) the heating demand surges

4. If the author's assessment of the use of heat pumps(lines 1-6) is correct, which of the following best expresses the lesson that advertisers should learn from this case?
(A) Do not make exaggerated claims about the products you are trying to promote.
(B) Focus your advertising campaign on vague analogies and veiled implications instead of on facts.
(C) Do not use facts in your advertising that willstrain the prospective client's ability to believe.
(D) Do not assume in your advertising that the prospective clients know even the most elementary scientific principles. (E) Concentrate your advertising firmly on financially relevant issues such as price discounts and efficiency of operation.

5. The passage suggests that heat pumps would be used more widely if
(A) they could also be used as air conditioners
(B) they could be moved around to supply heat where it is most needed
(C) their heat output could be thermo-statically controlled
(D) models with truly superior cooling capacity were advertised more effectively
(E) people appreciated the role of the evaporator in the energy equation

6. According to the passage, the role of the flow restriction (lines 16-17) in a heat pump is to
(A) measure accurately the flow rate of the refrigerant mass at that point
(B) compress and heat the refrigerant vapor
(C) bring about the evaporation and cooling of refrigerant
(D) exchange heat between the refrigerant and the air at that point
(E) reverse the direction of refrigerant flow when needed

7. The author regards the notion that heat pumps have a genuine drawback as a
(A) cause for regret
(B) sign of premature defeatism
(C) welcome challenge
(D) case of sloppy thinking
(E) focus for an educational campaign


Passage 2
Islamic law is a particularly instructive example of "sacred law." Islamic law is a phenomenon so different from all other forms of law.not withstanding, of course, a considerable and inevitable number of coincidences with one or the other of them as far as subject matter and positive enactment are concerned-that its study is indispensable in order to appreciate adequately the full range of possible legal phenomena. Even the two other representatives of sacred law that are historically and geographically nearest to it, Jewish law and Roman Catholic canon law, are perceptibly different.
Both Jewish law and canon law are more uniform than Islamic law. Though historically there is a discernible break between Jewish law of the sovereign state of ancient Israel and of the Diaspora (the dispersion of Jewish people after the conquest of Israel), the spirit of the legal matter in later parts of the Old Testament is very close to that of the Talmud, one of the primary codifications of Jewish law in the Diaspora. Islam, on the other hand, represented a radical breakaway from the Arab paganism that preceded it; Islamic law is the result of an examination, from a religious angle, of legal subject matter that was far from uniform, comprising as it did the various components of the laws of pre-Islamic Arabia and numerous legal
Islamic law is the result of an examination, from a religious angle, of legal subject matter that was far from uniform, comprising as it did the various components of the laws of pre-Islamic Arabia and numerous legal elements taken over from the non-Arab peoples of the conquered territories. All this was unified by being subjected to the same kind of religious scrutiny, the impact of which varied greatly, being almost nonexistent in some fields, and in others originating novel institutions. This central duality of legal subject matter and religious norm is additional to the variety of legal, ethical, and ritual rules that is typical of sacred law. In its relation to the secular state, Islamic law differed from both Jewish and canon law. Jewish law was buttressed by the cohesion of the community, reinforced by pressure from outside; its rules are the direct expression of this feeling of cohesion, tending toward the accommodation of dissent. Canon and Is-lamic law, on the contrary, were dominated by the dualism of religion and state, where the state was not, in contrast with Judaism, an alien power but the political expression of the same religion. But the conflict between state and religion took different forms; in Christianity it appeared as the struggle for political power on the part of a tightly organized ecclesiastical hierarchy, and canon law was one of its political weapons. Islamic in contrast with Judaism, an alien power but the political expression of the same religion. But the conflict between state and religion took different forms; in Christianity it appeared as the struggle for political power on the part of a tightly organized ecc-lesiastical hierarchy, and canon law was one of itspolitical weapons. Islamic law, on the other hand, was never supported by an organized institution; consequently, there never developed an overt trial of strength. There merely existed discordance between application of the sacred law and many of the regulations framed by Islamic states; this antagonism varied according to place and time.

1. The author's purpose in comparing Islamic law to Jewish law and canon law is most probably to
(A)contend that traditional legal subject matter does not play a large role in Ialamic law
(B)support his argument that Islamic law is a unique kind of legal phenomenon
(C)emphasize the variety of forms that can all be considered sacred law
(D)provide an example of how he believes comparative institutional study should be undertaken
(E)argue that geographical and historical proximity does not necessarily lead to parallel institutional development

KEYS:
Passage 1: CCACE CA
Passage 2: B


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?5??

Passage 1
Islamic law is a particularly instructive example of "sacred law." Islamic law is a phenomenon so different from all other forms of law.not withstanding, of course, a considerable and inevitable number of coincidences with one or the other of them as far as subject matter and positive enactment are concerned-that its study is indispensable in order to appreciate adequately the full range of possible legal phenomena. Even the two other representatives of sacred law that are historically and geographically nearest to it, Jewish law and Roman Catholic canon law, are perceptibly different.
Both Jewish law and canon law are more uniform than Islamic law. Though historically there is a discernible break between Jewish law of the sovereign state of ancient Israel and of the Diaspora (the dispersion of Jewish people after the conquest of Israel), the spirit of the legal matter in later parts of the Old Testament is very close to that of the Talmud, one of the primary codifications of Jewish law in the Diaspora. Islam, on the other hand, represented a radical breakaway from the Arab paganism that preceded it; Islamic law is the result of an examination, from a religious angle, of legal subject matter that was far from uniform, comprising as it did the various components of the laws of pre-Islamic Arabia and numerous legal
Islamic law is the result of an examination, from a religious angle, of legal subject matter that was far from uniform, comprising as it did the various components of the laws of pre-Islamic Arabia and numerous legal elements taken over from the non-Arab peoples of the conquered territories. All this was unified by being subjected to the same kind of religious scrutiny, the impact of which varied greatly, being almost nonexistent in some fields, and in others originating novel institutions. This central duality of legal subject matter and religious norm is additional to the variety of legal, ethical, and ritual rules that is typical of sacred law. In its relation to the secular state, Islamic law differed from both Jewish and canon law. Jewish law was buttressed by the cohesion of the community, reinforced by pressure from outside; its rules are the direct expression of this feeling of cohesion, tending toward the accommodation of dissent. Canon and Is-lamic law, on the contrary, were dominated by the dualism of religion and state, where the state was not, in contrast with Judaism, an alien power but the political expression of the same religion. But the conflict between state and religion took different forms; in Christianity it appeared as the struggle for political power on the part of a tightly organized ecclesiastical hierarchy, and canon law was one of its political weapons. Islamic in contrast with Judaism, an alien power but the political expression of the same religion. But the conflict between state and religion took different forms; in Christianity it appeared as the struggle for political power on the part of a tightly organized ecc-lesiastical hierarchy, and canon law was one of itspolitical weapons. Islamic law, on the other hand, was never supported by an organized institution; consequently, there never developed an overt trial of strength. There merely existed discordance between application of the sacred law and many of the regulations framed by Islamic states; this antagonism varied according to place and time.

1. The passage provides information to answer which of the following questions?
(A)Does Islamic law depend on sources other than Arab legal principles?
(B)What secular practices of Islamic states conflicted with Islamic law?
(C)Are Jewish law and canon law the most typical examples of sacred law?
(D)Is Jewish law more uniform than canon law?
(E)What characterized Arab law of the pre-Islamic era?

2. According to the passage, which of the following statements about sacred law is correct? (A)The various systems of sacred law originated in a limited geographical area.
(B)The various systems of sacred law have had marked influence on one another.
(C)Systems of sacred law usually rely on a wide variety of precedents.
(D)Systems of sacred law generally contain prescriptions governing diverse aspects of human activity.
(E)Systems of sacred law function most effectively in communities with relatively small populations.

3. It can be inferred from the passage that the application of Islamic law in Islamic states has
(A)systematically been opposed by groups who believe it is contrary to their interests
(B)suffered irreparably from the lack of firm institutional backing
(C)frequently been at odds with the legal activity of government institutions
(D)remained unaffected by the political forces operating alongside it
(E)benefited from the fact that it never experienced a direct confrontation with the state

4. Which of the following most accurately describes the organization of the passage?
(A)A universal principle is advanced and then discussed in relation to a particular historical phenomenon.
(B)A methodological innovation is suggested and then examples of its efficacy are provided.
(C)A traditional interpretation is questioned and then modified to include new data.
(D)A general opinion is expressed and then supportive illustrations are advanced.
(E)A controversial viewpoint is presented and then both supportive evidence and contradictory evidence are cited.

5. The passage implies that the relationship of Islamic, Jewish, and canon law is correctly described by which of the following statements?
I.Because each constitutes an example of sacred law, they necessarily share some features.
II.They each developed in reaction to the interference of secular politicalinstitutions
III.The differences among them result partly from their differing emphasis on purely ethical rules.
(A) I only
(B) III only
(C) I and II only
(D) II and III only
(E) I, II, and III

6. The passage suggests that canon law differs from Islamic law in that only canon law
(A)contains prescriptions that nonsacred legal systems might regard as properly legal
(B)concerns itself with the duties of a person in regard to the community as a whole
(C)was affected by the tension of the conflict between religion and state
(D)developed in a political environment that did not challenge its fundamental existence
(E)played a role in the direct confrontation between institutions vying for power

7. All of the following statements about the de-velopment of Islamic law are implied in the passage EXCEPT:
(A)Pre-Islamic legal principles were incorporated into Islamic law with widely differing degrees of change.
(B)Diverse legal elements were joined together through the application of a purely religious criterion.
(C)Although some of the sources of Islamic law were pagan, its integrity as a sacred law was not compromised by their incorporation.
(D)There was a fundamental shared characteristic in all pre-Islamic legal matter taken over by Islamic law.
(E)Although Islam emerged among the Arabs Islamic law was influenced by ethnically diverse elements.


Passage 2
Because of its accuracy in outlining the Earth's subsurface,the seismic-reflection method remains the most important tool in the search for petroleum reserves.In field practice, a subsurface is mapped by line arranging a series of wave-train sources, such as small dynamite explosions, in a grid pattern.As each source is activated,it generates a wave train that moves downward at a speed determined uniquely by the rock's elastic characteristics. As rock interfaces are crossed, the elastic characteristics encountered generally change abruptly, which causes part of the energy to be reflected back to the surface, where it is recorded by seismic instruments.
As rock interfaces are crossed, the elastic characteristics encountered generally change abruptly, which causes part of the energy to be reflected back to the surface, where it is recorded by seismic instruments.The seismic records must be processed to correct for positional differences between the source and the receiver, for unrelated wave trains,and for multiple reflections from the rock interfaces.Then the data acquired at each of the specific source locations are combined to generate a physical profile of the subsurface, which can eventually be used to select targ-ets for drilling.

1. The passage is primarily concerned with
(A)describing an important technique
(B)discussing a new method
(C)investigating a controversial procedure
(D)announcing a significant discovery
(E)promoting a novel application

2. According to the passage, in the seismic-reflection method all of the following have a significant effect on the signal detected by the seismic instruments EXCEPT the
(A) presence of unrelated wave trains
(B) placement of the seismic instruments
(C) number of sources in the grid pattern
(D) nature of the reflectivity of the rock interfaces
(E) properties of rocks through which the wave train has traveled

3. It can be inferred from the passage that the seismic-reflection method would be likely to yield an inaccurate physical profile of the subsurface in which of the following circumstances?
(A) If the speed at which the wave train moved downward changed
(B) If the receiver were not positioned directly at the wave-train source
(C) If the rock on one side of a rock interface had similar elastic characteristics to those of the rock on the other side (D) If the seismic records obtained for the different sources in a grid were highly similar to each other
(E) If there were no petroleum deposits beneath the area defined by the grid of wave-train sources

4. Which of the following best describes the organization of the passage?
(A) A method is criticized, and an alternative is suggested
(B) An illustration is examined, and some errors are exposed
(C) An assertion is made, and a procedure is outlined]
(D) A series of example is presented, and a conclusion is drawn
(E) A hypothesis is advanced, and supporting evidence is supplied.


Passage 3
Scholars often fail to see that music played an important role in the preservation of African culture in the United States. They correctly note that slavery stripped some cultural elements from Black people-their political and economic systems-but they underestimate the significance of music in sustaining other African cultural values. African music,unlike the music of some other cultures, was based on a total vision of life in which music was not an isolated social domain. In African culture music was pervasive, serving not only religion,but all phases of life, including birth, death, work, and play. The methods that a community devises to perpetuate itself come into being to preserve aspects of the cultural legacy that that community perceives as essential. Music, like art in general, was so inextricably a part of African culture that it became a crucial means of preserving the culture during and after the dislocations of slavery.

1. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) analyze the impact that slavery had on African political and economic systems
(B) review the attempt of recent scholarship to study the influence of African music on other music
(C) correct the failure of some scholars to appreciate the significance of music in African culture
(D) survey the ways by which people attempt to preserve their culture against the effects of oppression
(E) compare the relative importance of music with that of other art forms in culture

2. In line 9, the phrase "isolated social domain" refers to
(A) African music in relation to contemporary culture as a whole
(B) music as it may be perceived in non-African cultures
(C) a feature of African music that aided in trans mitting African cultural values
(D) an aspect of the African cultural legacy
(E) the influence of music on contemporary culture


3. Which of the following statements concerning the function of African music can be inferred from the passage?
(A) It preserved cultural values because it was thoroughly integrated into the lives of the people.
(B) It was more important in the development of African religious life than in other areas of culture.
(C) It was developed in response to the loss of political and economic systems.
(D) Its pervasiveness in African culture hindered its effectiveness in minimizing the impact of slavery.
(E) Its isolation from the economic domains of life enabled it to survive the destructive impact of slavery.

4. According to the author, scholars would err in drawing which of the following conclusions?
I. Slavery stripped the slaves of their political and economic systems.
II. African music was similar to all other traditions of music in that it originated in a total vision of life.
III. Music was a crucial part of the African cultural legacy.
(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) I and II only
(D) II and III only
(E) I, II, and III


Passage 4
Traditionally, pollination by wind has been viewed as a reproductive process marked by random events in which the vagaries of the wind are compensated for by the generation of vast quantities of pollen, so that the ultimate production of new seeds is assured at the expense of producing much more pollen than is actually used. Because the potential hazards pollen grains are subject to as they are transported over long distances are enormous, wind-pollinated plants have, in the view above, compensated for the ensuing loss of pollen through happenstance by virtue of producing an amount of pollen that is one to three orders of magnitude greater than the amount produced by species pollinated by insects.
However, a number of features that are characteristic of wind-pollinated plants reduce pollen waste. For example, many wind-pollinated species fail to release pollen when wind speeds are low or when humid conditions prevail. Recent studies suggest another way in which species compensate for the inefficiency of wind pollination. These studies suggest that species frequently take advantage of the physics of pollen motion by generating specific aerodynamic environments within the immediate vicinity of their female reproductive organs.It is the morphology of these organs that dictates the pattern of airflow disturbances through which pollen must travel. The speed and direction of the airflow disturbances can combine with the physical properties of a species' pollen to produce a species-specific pattern of pollen collision on the surfaces of female reproductive organs. Provided that these surfaces are strategically located, the consequences of this combination can significantly increase the pollen-capture efficiency of a female reproductive organ.
A critical question that remains to be answered is whether the morphological attributes of the female reproductive organs of wind-pollinated species are evolutionary adaptations to wind pollination or are merely fortuitous. A complete resolution of the question is as yet impossible since adaptation must be evaluated for each species within its own unique functional context. However, it must be said that, while evidence of such evolutionary adaptations does exist in some species,one must be careful about attributing morphology to adaptation. For example, the spiral arrangement of scale-bract complexes on ovule-bearing pine cones,where the female reproductive organs of conifers are located, is important to the production of air-flow patterns that spiral over the cone's surfaces, thereby passing airborne pollen from one scale to the next. However, these patterns cannot be viewed as an adaptation to wind pollination because the spiral ar- rangement occurs in a number of non-wind-pollinated plant lineages and is regarded as a characteristic of vascular plants, of which conifers are only one kind, as a whole. Therefore, the spiral arrangement is not likely to be the result of a direct adaptation to wind pollination.

1.The author of the passage is primarily concerned with discussing
(A) the current debate on whether the morphological attributes of wind-pollinated plants are evolutionary adaptations
(B) the kinds of airflow patterns that permit windpollinated plants to capture pollen most efficiently
(C) the ways in which the reproductive processes of wind-pollinated plants are controlled by random events
(D) a recently proposed explanation of a way in which wind-pollinated plants reduce pollen waste
(E) a specific morphological attribute that permits one species of wind-pollinated plant to capture pollen

2. The author suggests that explanations of wind pollination that emphasize the production of vast quantities of pollen to compensate for the randomness of the pollination process are
(A) debatable and misleading
(B) ingenious and convincing
(C) accurate but incomplete
(D) intriguing but controversial
(E) plausible but unverifiable

3.According to the passage,the"aerodynamic environments" mentioned in line 23, when they are produced, are primarily determined by the
(A) presence of insects near the plant
(B) physical properties of the plant's pollen
(C) shape of the plant's female reproductive organs
(D) amount of pollen generated by the plant
(E) number of seeds produced by the plant

4.According to the passage, true statements about the release of pollen by wind-pollinated plants include which of the following?
I.The release can be affected by certain environmental factors.
II.The amount of pollen released increases on a rainy day.
III.Pollen is sometimes not released by plants when there is little wind.
(A) II only
(B) III only
(C) I and II only
(D) I and III only
(E) I, II, and III

5. The passage suggests that the recent studies cited in lines 19-21 have not done which of the following?
(A)Made any distinctions between different species of wind-pollinated plants.
(B)Considered the physical properties of the pollen that is produced by wind-pollinated plants.
(C)Indicated the general range within which plantgenerated airflow disturbances are apt to occur.
(D)Included investigations of the physics of pollen motion and its relationship to the efficient capture of pollen by the female reproductive organs of wind-pollinated plants.
(E)Demonstrated that the morphological attributes of the female reproductive organs of wind-pollinated plants are usually evolutionary adaptations to wind pollination.

6. It can be inferred from the passage that the claim that the spiral arrangement of scale-bract complexes on an ovule-bearing pine cone is an adaptation to wind pollination would be more convincing if which of the following were true? (A) Such an arrangement occurred only in windpollinated plants.
(B) Such an arrangement occurred in vascular plants as a whole.
(C) Such an arrangement could be shown to be beneficial to pollen release.
(D) The number of bracts could be shown to have increased over time.
(E) The airflow patterns over the cone's surfaces could be shown to be produced by such arrangements.

7.Which of the following, if known, is likely to have been the kind of evidence used to support the view described in the first paragraph?
(A)Wind speeds need not be very low for windpollinated plants to fail to release pollen.
(B)The female reproductive organs of plants often have a sticky surface that allows them to trap airborne pollen systematically.
(C)Grasses,as well as conifers, generate specific aerodynamic environments within the immediate vicinity of their reproductive organs.
(D)Rain showers often wash airborne pollen out of the air before it ever reaches an appropriate plant.
(E)The density and size of an airborne pollen grain are of equal importance in determining whether that grain will be captured by a plant.

KEYS:
Passage 1: ADCDA ED
Passage 2: ACCC
Passage 3: CBAB
Passage 4: DCCDE AD


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?6??

Passage 1
It is frequently assumed that the mechanization of
work has a revolutionary effect on the lives of the people
who operate the new machines and on the society into
which the machines have been introduced. For example,
(5) it has been suggested that the employment of women in
industry took them out of the household, their tradi-
tional sphere, and fundamentally altered their position in
society. In the nineteenth century, when women began to
enter factories, Jules Simon, a French politician, warned
(10)that by doing so, women would give up their femininity.
Friedrich Engels, however, predicted that women would
be liberated from the "social, legal, and economic subor-
dination" of the family by technological developments
that made possible the recruitment of "the whole female
(15)sex . into public industry." Observers thus differed
concerning the social desirability of mechanization's
effects, but they agreed that it would transform
women's lives.
Historians, particularly those investigating the history
(20)of women, now seriously question this assumption of
transforming power. They conclude that such dramatic
technological innovations as the spinning jenny, the
sewing machine, the typewriter, and the vacuum cleaner
have not resulted in equally dramatic social changes in
(25)women's economic position or in the prevailing evalua-
tion of women's work. The employment of young
women in textile mills during the Industrial Revolution
was largely an extension of an older pattern of employ-
ment of young, single women as domestics. It was not
(30)the change in office technology, but rather the separa-
tion of secretarial work, previously seen as an appren-
ticeship for beginning managers, from administrative
work that in the 1880's created a new class of "dead-
end" jobs, thenceforth considered "women's work." The
(35)increase in the numbers of married women employed
outside the home in the twentieth century had less to do
with the mechanization of housework and an increase in
leisure time for these women than it did with their own
economic necessity and with high marriage rates that
(40)shrank the available pool of single women workers,
previously, in many cases, the only women employers
would hire.
Women's work has changed conside-rably in the past
200 years, moving from the household to the office or
(45)the factory, and later becoming mostly white-collar
instead of blue-collar work. Fundamentally, however,
the conditions under which women work have changed
little since before the Industrial Revolution: the segre-
gation of occupations by gender, lower pay for women
(50)as a group, jobs that require relatively low levels of skill
and offer women little opportunity for advancement
all persist, while women's household labor remains
demanding. Recent historical investigation has led to a
major revision of the notion that technology is always
(55)inherently revolutionary in its effects on society. Mecha-
nization may even have slowed any change in the tradi-
tional position of women both in the labor market and
in the home

1. Which of the following statements best summarizes the main idea of the passage?
(A) The effects of the mechanization of women's work have not borne out the frequently held assumption that new technology is inherently revolutionary.
(B) Recent studies have shown that mechanization revolutionizes a society's traditional values and the customary roles of its members.
(C) Mechanization has caused the nature of women's work to change since the Industrial Revolution.
(D) The mechanization of work creates whole new classes of jobs that did not previously exist.

2. The author mentions all of the following inventions as examples of dramatic technological innovations EXCEPT the
(A) sewing machine
(B) vacuum cleaner
(C) typewriter
(D) telephone
(E) spinning jenny

3. It can be inferred from the passage that, before the Industrial Revolution, the majority of women's work was done in which of the following settings?
(A) Textile mills
(B) Private households
(C) Offices
(D) Factories
(E) Small shops

4. It can be inferred front the passage that the author would consider which of the following to be an indication of a fundamental alteration in the conditions of women's work?
(A) Statistics showing that the majority of women now occupy white-collar positions
(B) Interviews with married men indicating that they are now doing some household tasks
(C) Surveys of the labor market documenting the recent creation of a new class of jobs in electronics in which women workers outnumber men four to one
(D) Census results showing that working women's wages and salaries are, on the average, as high as those of working men

5. The passage states that, before the twentieth century, which of the following was true of many employers?
(A) They did not employ women in factories.
(B) They tended to employ single rather than married women.
(C) They employed women in only those jobs that were related to women's traditional household work.
(D) They resisted technological innovations that would radically change women's roles in the family.
(E) They hired women only when qualified men were not available to fill the open positions.

6. It can be inferred from the passage that the author most probably believes which of the following to be true concerning those historians who study the history of women?
(A) Their work provides insights important to those examining social phenomena affecting the lives of both sexes.
(B) Their work can only be used cautiously by scholars in other disciplines.
(C) Because they concentrate only on the role of women in the workplace, they draw more reliable conclusions than do other historians.
(D) While highly interesting, their work has not had an impact on most historians' current assumptions concerning the revolutionary effect of technology in the workplace.
(E) They oppose the further mechanization of work, which, according to their findings, tends to perpetuate existing inequalities in society.

7. Which of the following best describes the function of the concluding sentence of the passage?
(A)It sums up the general points concerning the mechanization of work made in the passage as a whole.
(B)It draws a conclusion concerning the effects of the mechanization of work which goes beyond the evidence presented in the passage as a whole.
(C)It restates the point concerning technology made in the sentence immediately preceding it.
(D)It qualifies the author's agreement with scholars who argue for a major revision in the assessment of the impact of mechanization on society.

Passage 2
(This passage is excerpted from an article that was
pulished in 1982.)
Warm-blooded animals have elaborate physiological
controls to maintain constant body temperature (in
humans, 37°C). Why then during sickness should
temperature rise, apparently increasing stress on the
(5)infected organism? It has long been known that the level
of serum iron in animals fills during infection. Garibaldi
first suggested a relationship between fever and iron. He
found that microbial synthesis of siderophores-
substances that bind iron-in bacteria of the genus
(10)Salmonella declined at environmental temperatures
above 37°C and stopped at 40.3°C. Thus, fever would
make it more difficult for an infecting bacterium to
acquire iron and thus to multiply. Cold-blooded animals
were used to test this hypothesis because their body
(15)temperature can be controlled in the laboratory. Kluger
reported that of iguanas infected with the potentially
lethal bacterium A. hydrophilia, more survived at
temperatures of 42°C than at 37°C, even though
healthy animals prefer the lower temperature. When
(20)animals at 42°C were injected with an iron solution,
however, mortality rates increased significantly.
Research to determine whether similar phenomena occur
in warm-blooded animals is sorely needed.

1.The passage is primarily concerned with attempts to determine
(A) the role of siderophores in the synthesis of serum iron
(B) new treatments for infections that are caused by A. hydrophilia
(C) the function of fever in warm-blooded animals
(D) the mechanisms that ensure constant body temperature
(E) iron utilization in cold-blooded animals

2.According to the passage, Garibaldi determined which of the following?
(A) That serum iron is produced through microbial synthesis
(B) That microbial synthesis of siderophores in warm-blooded animals is more efficient at higher temperatures.
(C) That only iron bound to other substances can be used by bacteria.
(D) That there is a relationship between thesynthesis of siderophores in bacteria of the genus Salmonella and environmental temperature.
(E) That bacteria of the genus Salmonella require iron as a nutrient.

3.Which of the following can be inferred about warm-blooded animals solely on the basis of information in the passage?
(A) The body temperatures of warm-bloodedanimals cannot be easily controlled in the laboratory.
(B) Warm-blooded animals require more iron in periods of stress than they do at other times.
(C) Warm-blooded animals are more comfortableat an environmental temperature of 37°C than they are at a temperature of 42°C.
(D) In warm-blooded animals, bacteria are respon-sible for the production of siderophores, which, in turn, make iron available to the animal.
(E) In warm-blooded animals, infections that lead to fever are usually traceable to bacteria.

4.If it were to be determined that "similar phenomena occur in warm-blooded animals" (lines 21-22), which of the following, assuming each is possible, is likely to be the most effective treatment for warm-blooded animals with bacterial infections?
(A) Administering a medication that lowers the animals' body temperature
(B) Injecting the animals with an iron solution
(C) Administering a medication that makes serum iron unavailable to bacteria
(D) Providing the animals with reduced-iron diets
(E) Keeping the animals in an environment with temperatures higher than 37°C


PASSAGE 3

Present-day philosophers usually envision their disci-
pline as an endeavor that has been, since antiquity,
distinct from and superior to any particular intellectual
discipline, such as theology or science. Such philosoph-
5) ical concerns as the mind-body problem or, more gener-
ally, the nature of human knowledge they believe, are
basic human questions whose tentative philosophical
solutions have served as the necessary foundations on
which all other intellectual speculation has rested.
10) The basis for this view, however, lies in a serious
misinterpretation of the past, a projection of modern
concerns onto past events. The idea of an autonomous
discipline called "philosophy," distinct from and sitting
in judgment on such pursuits as theology and science
15) turns out, on close examination, to be of quite recent
origin. When, in the seventeenth century, Descartes and
Hobbes rejected medieval philosophy, they did not
think of themselves, as modern philosophers do, as
proposing a new and better philosophy, but rather as
20) furthering "the warfare between science and theology."
They were fighting, albeit discrectly, to open the intellec
tual world to the new science and to liberate intellec-
tual life from ecclesiastical philosophy and envisioned
their work as contributing to the growth, not of philos-
25) ophy, but of research in mathematics and physics. This
link between philosophical interests and scientific prac-
tice persisted until the nineteenth century, when decline
in ecclesiastical power over scholarship and changes in
the nature of science provoked the final separation of
30) philosophy from both.
The demarcation of philosophy from science was
facilitated by the development in the early nineteenth
century of a new notion, that philosophy's core interest
should be epistemology, the general explanation of
35) what it means to know something. Modern philoso-
phers now trace that notion back at least to Descartes
and Spinoza, but it was not explicitly articulated until
the late eighteenth century, by Kant, and did not
become built into the structure of academic institutions
40) and the standard self-descriptions of philosophy profes-
sors until the late nineteenth century. Without the idea
of epistemology, the survival of philosophy in an age of
modern science is hard to imagine. Metaphysics, philos-
ophy's traditional core-considered as the most general
45) description of how the heavens and the earth are put
together-had been rendered almost completely mean-
ingless by the spectacular progress of physics. Kant,
however, by focusing philosophy on the problem of
knowledge, managed to replace metaphysics with epis-
(50) temology, and thus to transform the notion of philos-
ophy as "queen of sciences" into the new notion of
philosophy as a separate, foundational discipline.
philosophy became "primary" no longer in the sense of
"highest" but in the sense of "underlying". After Kant,
(55) philosophers were able to reinterpret seventeenth-and
eighteenth-century thinkers as attempting to discover
"How is our knowledge possible?" and to project this
question back even on the ancients.


1. Which of the following best expresses the author's main point?
(A) Philosophy's overriding interest in basic human questions is a legacy primarily of the work of Kant.
(B) Philosophy was deeply involved in the seventeenth century warfare between science and religion.
(C) The set of problems of primary importance to philosophers has remained relatively constant since antiquity.
(D) The status of philosophy as an independent intellectual pursuit is a relatively recent development.
(E) The role of philosophy in guiding intellectual speculation has gradually been usurped by science.

2. According to the passage, present-day philosophers believe that the mind-body problem is an issue that
(A) has implications primarily for philosophers
(B) may be affected by recent advances in science
(C) has shaped recent work in epistemology
(D) has little relevance to present-day philosophy
(E) has served as a basis for intellectual speculation since antiquity

3. According to the author, philosophy became distinct from science and theology during the
(A) ancient period
(B) medieval period
(C) seventeenth century
(D) nineteenth century
(E) twentieth century

4. The author suggests that Descartes' support for the new science of the seventeenth century can be characterized as
(A) pragmatic and hypocritical
(B) cautious and inconsistent
(C) daring and opportunistic
(D) intense but fleeting
(E) strong but prudent

5. The author of the passage implies which of the following in discussing the development of philosophy during the nineteenth century?
(A) Nineteenth-century philosophy took science as its model for understanding the bases of knowledge.
(B) The role of academic institutions in shaping metaphysical philosophy grew enormously during the nineteenth century.
(C) Nineteenth-century philosophers carried out a program of investigation explicitly laid out by Descartes and Spinoza.
(D) Kant had an overwhelming impact on the direction of nineteenth-century philosophy
(E) Nineteenth-century philosophy made major advances in understanding the nature of knowledge.

6. With which of the following statements concerning the writing of history would the author of the passage be most likely to agree
(A) History should not emphasize the role played by ideas over the role played by individuals.
(B) History should not be distorted by attributing present-day consciousness to historical figures.
(C) History should not be focused primarily on those past events most relevant to the present.
(D) History should be concerned with describing those aspects of the past that differ most from those of the present.
(E) History should be examined for the lessons it can provide in understanding current problems.

7. The primary function of the passage as a whole is to
(A) compare two competing models
(B) analyze a difficult theory
(C) present new evidence for a theory
(D) correct an erroneous belief by describing its origins
(E) resolve a long-standing theoretical controversy

PASSAGE 4

The intensive work of materials scientists and solid-
state physicists has given rise to a class of solids known
as amorphous metallic alloys, or glassy metals. There is
a growing interest among theoretical and applied
(5) researchers alike in the structural properties of these
materials.
When a molten metal or metallic alloy is cooled to a
solid, a crystalline structure is formed that depends on
the particular alloy composition. In contrast, molten
(10)nonmetallic glass- forming materials, when cooled, do
not assume a crystalline structure, but instead retain a
structure somewhat like that of the liquid--an amor-
phous structure. At room temperature, the natural
long-term tendency for both types of materials is to
(15)assume the crystalline structure.The difference between
the two is in the kinetics or rate of formation of the
crystalline structure, which is controlled by factors such
as the nature of the chemical bonding and the ease with
which atoms move relative to each other. Thus, in
(20)metals, the kinetics favors rapid formation of a crys-
tal line structure, whereas in nonmetallic glasses the rate
of formation is so slow that almost any cooling rate is
sufficient to result in an amorphous structure. For
glassy metals to be formed, the molten metal must be
(25)cooled extremely rapidly so that crystallization is
suppressed.
The structure of glassy metals is thought to be simi-
lar to that of liquid metals. One of the first attempts to
model the structure of a liquid was that by the late J. D.
(30)Bernal of the University of London, who packed hard
spheres into a rubber vessel in such a way as to obtain
the maximum possible density. The resulting dense,
random-packed structure was the basis for many
attempts to model the structure of glassy metals.
(35) Calculations of the density of alloys based on
Bernal-type models of the alloys metal component
agreed fairly well with the experimentally determined
values from measurements on alloys consisting of a
noble metal together with a metalloid, such as alloys of
(40)palladium and silicon, or alloys consisting of iron,
phosphorus,and carbon, although small discrepancies
remained. One difference between real alloys and the
hard spheres used in Bernal models is that the compo-
nents of an alloy have different sizes, so that mode,
(45)based on two sizes of spheres are more appropriate for
a binary alloy, for example. The smaller metalloid
atoms of the alloy might fit into holes in the dense,
random-packed structure of the larger metal atoms.
One of the most promising properties of glassy
(50)metals is their high strength combined with high
malleability. In usual crystalline materials, one finds an
inverse relation between the two properties, whereas for
many practical applications simultaneous presence of
both properties is desirable. One residual obstacle to
(55)practical applications that is likely to be overcome is the
fact that glassy metals will crystallize at relatively low
temperatures when heated slightly.


1. The author is primarily concerned with discussing
(A) crystalline solids and their behavior at different temperatures
(B) molten materials and the kinetics of the formation of their crystalline structure
(C) glassy metals and their structural characteristics
(D) metallic alloys and problems in determining their density
(E) amorphous materials and their practical utilization

2. The author implies that the rate at which the molten materials discussed in the passage are cooled is a determinant of the
(A) chemical composition of the resulting solids
(B) strength of the chemical bonds that are formed
(C) kinetics of the materials' crystalline structure
(D) structure the materials assume
(E) stability of the materials' crystalline structure

3. The author's speculation about the appropriateness of models using spheres of two sizes for binary alloys would be strongly supported if models using spheres of two sizes yielded
(A) values for density identical to values yielded by one-sphere models using the smaller spheres only
(B)values for density agreeing nearly perfectly with experimentally determined values
(C)values for density agreeing nearly perfectly with values yielded by models using spheres of three sizes
(D) significantly different values for density depending on the size ratio between the two kinds of spheres used
(E) the same values for density as the values for appropriately chosen models that use only medium-sized spheres

4. The author's attitude toward the prospects for he economic utilization of glassy metals is one of
(A) disinterest
(B) impatience
(C) optimism
(D) apprehension
(E) skepticism

5. According to the passage, which of the following determines the crystalline structure of a metallic alloy?
(A) At what rate the molten alloy is cooled
(B) How rapid the rate of formation of the crystalline phase is
(C) How the different-sized atoms fit into a dense, random-packed structure
(D) What the alloy consists of and in what ratios
(E) At what temperature the molten alloy becomes solid

6. Which of the following best describes the relationship between the structure of liquid metals and the structure of glassy metals, as it is presented in the passage?
(A) The latter is an illustrative example of the former.
(B) The latter is a large-scale version of the former.
(C) The former is a structural elaboration of the latter.
(D) The former provides an instructive contrast to the latter.
(E) The former is a fair approximation of the latter.

7. It can be inferred from the passage that, theoretically, molten nonmetallic glasses assume a crystalline structure rather than an amorphous structure only if they are cooled
(A) very evenly, regardless of the rate
(B) rapidly, followed by gentle heating
(C) extremely slowly
(D) to room temperature
(E) to extremely low temperatures

??:
Passage 1: CBACE DD
Passage 2: BAEB
Passage 3: DEDED BD
Passage 4: CDBCD EC


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?7??

PASSAGE 1
The success of fluoride in combating dental decay is
well established and, without a doubt, socially beneficial.
However, fluoride's toxic properties have been known
for a century. In humans excessive intake ( for adults,
(5) over 4 milligrams per day) over many years can lead to
skeletal fluorosis, a well-defined skeletal disorder, and in
some plant species, fluoride is more toxic than ozone,
sulfur dioxide, or pesticides.
Some important questions remain.For example, the
(10)precise lower limit at which the fluoride content of bone
becomes toxic is still undetermined. And while fluoride
intake from water and air can be evaluated relatively
easily, it is much harder to estimate how much a given
population ingests from foodstuffs because of the wide
(15)variations in individual eating habits and in fluoride
concentrations in foodstuffs. These difficulties suggest
that we should by wary of indiscriminately using fluo-
ride, even in the form of fluoride-containing dental products.

1. In the passage, the author is primarily concerned with
(A) analyzing and categorizing
(B) comparing and contrasting
(C) synthesizing and predicting
(D) describing and cautioning
(E) summarizing and reinterpreting

2. The passage suggests that it would be easier to calculate fluoride intake from food if
(A) adequate diets were available for most people.
(B) individual eating habits were more uniform
(C) the fluoride content of food was more varied
(D) more people were aware of the fluoride content of food
(E) methods for measuring the fluoride content of food were more generally agreed on

3. One function of the second paragraph of the passage is to
(A) raise doubts about fluoride's toxicity
(B) introduce the issue of fluoride's toxicity
(C) differentiate a toxic from a nontoxic amount of fluoride
(D) indicate that necessary knowledge of fluoride remains incomplete
(E) discuss the foodstuffs that are most likely to contain significant concentrations of fluoride

4. The passage suggests which of the following about the effect of fluoride on humans?
(A) The effect is more easily measured than is the effect of exposure to pesticides.
(B) The effect of fluoride intake from water and air is relatively difficult to monitor.
(C) In general the effect is not likely to be as harmful as the effect of exposure to sulfur dioxide.
(D) An intake of 4 milligrams over a long period of time usually leads to a skeletal disorder in humans.
(E) An intake of slightly more than 4 milligrams for only a few months is not likely to be life-threatening.

PASSAGE 2
Although, recent years have seen substantial reductions in noxious pollutants from individual motor vehicles, the number of such vehicles has been steadily increasing consequently, more than 100 cities in the United States still have levels of carbon monoxide, particulate matter, and ozone (generated by photochemical, reactions with hydrocarbons from vehicle exhaust)
that exceed legally established limits. There is a growing, realization that the only effective way to achieve, further
reductions in vehicle emissions-short of a massive shift away from the private automobile-is to replace conventional diesel fuel and gasoline with cleaner-burning fuels such as compressed natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, ethanol, or methanol.
All of these alternatives are carbon- based fuels whose molecules are smaller and simpler than those of gasoline.
These molecules burn more cleanly than gasoline, in part because they have fewer, if and , carbon-carbon bonds,
and the hydrocarbons they do emit are less likely to generate ozone. The combustion of larger molecules,
which have multiple carbon-carbon bonds, involves a more complex series of reactions. These reactions increase the probability of incomplete combustion and are more likely to release uncombusted and photochemically active hydrocarbon compounds into the atmosphere. On the other hand, alternative fuels do have drawbacks. Compressed natural gas would require that vehicles have a set of heavy fuel tanks-a serious liability in terms of performance and fuel efficiency----
and liquefied petroleum gas faces fundamental limits on supply.
Ethanol and methanol, on the other hand, have important advantages over other carbon-based alternative fuels: they have a higher energy content per volume and would require minimal changes in the existing network for distributing motor fuel. Ethanol is commonly used as a gasoline supplement, but it is currently about twice as expensive as methanol, the low
cost of which is one of its attractive features. Methanol's most attractive feature, however, is that it can reduce by
about 90 percent the vehicle emissions that form ozone, the most serious urban air pollutant.
Like any alternative fuel, methanol has its critics, Yet much of the criticism is based on the use of "gasoline
clone" vehicles that do not incorporate even the simplest design improvements that are made possible with the use
of methanol. It is true, for example, that a given volume of methanol provides only about one-half of the energy
that gasoline and diesel fuel do; other things being equal, the fuel tank would have to be somewhat larger and
heavier. However, since methanol- fueled vehicles could be designed to be much more efficient than "gasoline
clone" vehicles fueled with methanol, they would need comparatively less fuel. Vehicles incorporating only the
simplest of the engine improvements that methanol makes feasible would still contribute to an immediate
lessening of urban air pollution.

1. The author of the passage is primarily concerned with
(A) countering a flawed argument that dismisses a possible solution to a problem
(B) reconciling contradictory points of view about the nature of a problem
(C) identifying the strengths of possible solutions to a problem.
(D) discussing a problem and arguing in favor of one solution to it
(E) outlining a plan of action to solve a problem and discussing the obstacles blocking that plan.

2. According to the passage, incomplete combustion is more likely to occur with gasoline than with an alternative fuel because
(A) the combustion of gasoline releases photochemically active hydrocarbons
(B) the combustion of gasoline involves an intricate series of reactions
(C) gasoline molecules have a simple molecular structure
(D) gasoline is composed of small molecules.
(E) gasoline is a carbon-based fuel

3. The passage suggests which of the following about air pollution?
(A) Further attempts to reduce emissions from gasoline-fueled vehicles will not help lower urban air-pollution levels.
(B) Attempts to reduce the pollutants that an individual gasoline-fueled vehicle emits have been largely unsuccessful.
(C) Few serious attempts have been made to reduce the amount of pollutants emitted by gasoline-fueled vehicles.
(D) Pollutants emitted by gasoline-fueled vehicles are not the most critical source of urban air pollution.
(E) Reductions in pollutants emitted by individual vehicles have been offset by increases in pollution from sources other than gasoline-fueled vehicles.

4. Which of the following most closely parallels the situation described in the first sentence of the passage?
(A) Although a town reduces its public services in order to avoid a tax increase, the town's tax rate exceeds that of other towns in the surrounding area.
(B) Although a state passes strict laws to limit the type of toxic material that can be disposed of in public landfills, illegal dumping continues to increase.
(C) Although a town's citizens reduce their individual use of water, the town's water supplies continue to dwindle because of a steady increase in the total population of the town.
(D) Although a country attempts to increase the sale of domestic goods by adding a tax to the price of imported goods, the sale of imported goods within the country continues to increase.
(E) Although a country reduces the speed limit on its national highways, the number of fatalities caused by automobile accidents continues to increase.

5. The author describes which of the following as the most appealing feature of methanol?
(A) It is substantially less expensive than ethanol.
(B) It could be provided to consumers through the existing motor fuel distribution system.
(C) It has a higher energy content than other alternative fuels.
(D) Its use would make design improvements in individual vehicles feasible.
(E) Its use would substantially reduce ozone levels.

6. It can be inferred from the passage that a vehicle specifically designed to use methanol for fuel would
(A) be somewhat lighter in total body weight than a conventional vehicle fueled with gasoline
(B) be more expensive to operate than a conventional vehicle fueled with gasoline
(C) have a larger and more powerful engine than a conventional vehicle fueled with gasoline
(D) have a larger and heavier fuel tank than a "gasoline clone" vehicle fueled with methanol
(E) average more miles per gallon than a "gasoline clone" vehicle fueled with methanol

7. It can be inferred that the author of the passage most likely regards the criticism of methanol in the last paragraph as
(A) flawed because of the assumptions on which it is based
(B) inapplicable because of an inconsistency in the critics' arguments.
(C) misguided because of its exclusively technological focus
(D) inaccurate because it ignores consumers' concerns
(E) invalid because it reflects the personal bias of the critics

PASSAGE 3
Many objects in daily use have clearly been influenced by science, but their form and function, their dimensions and appearance, were determined by technologists artisans, designers, inventors, and engineers---using non-scientific modes of thought. Many features and qualities of the objects that a technologist thinks about cannot be reduced to unambiguous verbal descriptions; they are dealt with in the mind by a visual, nonverbal process. In the development of Western technology, it has been non-verbal thinking, by and large, that has fixed the outlines and filled in the details of our material surroundings. Pyramids, cathedrals, and rockets exist not because of geometry or thermodynamics but because they were first a picture in the minds of those who built them. The creative shaping process of a technologist's mind can be seen in nearly every artifact that exists. For example, in designing a diesel engine, a technologist might impress individual ways of nonverbal thinking on the machine by continually using an intuitive sense of rightness and fitness. What would be the shape of the combustion chamber? Where should the valves be placed? Should it have a long or short piston? Such questions have a range of answers that are supplied by experience, by physical requirements, by limitations of available space, and not least by a sense of form. Some decisions, such as wall thickness and pin diameter, may depend on scientific calculations, but the nonscientific component of design remains primary.
Design courses, then, should be an essential element in engineering curricula. Nonverbal thinking, a central mechanism in engineering design, involves perceptions, the stock-in-trade of the artist, not the scientist. Because perceptive processes are not assumed to entail "hard thinking," nonverbal thought is sometimes seen as a primitive stage in the development of cognitive processes and inferior to verbal or mathematical thought. But it is paradoxical that when the staff of the Historic American Engineering Record wished to have drawings made of machines and histoisometric views of industrial processes for its rical record of American engineering, the only college students with the requisite abilities were not engineering students, but rather students attending architectural schools.
It courses in design, which in a strongly analytical engineering curriculum provide the background required for practical problemsolving, are not provided, we can expect to encounter silly but costly errors occurring in advanced engineering systems. For example, early models of high-speed railroad cars loaded with sophisticated controls were unable to operate in a snowstorm because a fan sucked snow into the electrical system. Absurd random failures that plague automatic control systems are not merely trivial aberrations; they are a reflection of the chaos that results when design is assumed to be primarily a problem in mathematics.

1. In the passage, the author is primarily concerned with
(A) identifying the kinds of thinking that are used by technologists
(B) stressing the importance of nonverbal thinking in engineering design
(C) proposing a new role for nonscientific thinking in the development of technology
(D) contrasting the goals of engineers with those of technologists
(E) criticizing engineering schools for emphasizing science in engineering curricula

2. It can be inferred that the author thinks engineering curricula are
(A) strengthened when they include courses in design
(B) weakened by the substitution of physical science courses for courses designed to develop mathematical skills
(C) strong because nonverbal thinking is still emphasized by most of the courses
(D) strong despite the errors that graduates of such curricula have made in the development of automatic control systems
(E) strong despite the absence of nonscientific modes of thinking

3. Which of the following statements best illustrates the main point of lines 1-28 of the passage?
(A) When a machine like a rotary engine malfunctions, it is the technologist who is best equipped to repair it.
(B) Each component of an automobile-for example, the engine or the fuel tank has a shape that has been scientifically determined to be best suited to that component's function
(C) A telephone is a complex instrument designed by technologists using only nonverbal thought
(D) The designer of a new refrigerator should consider the designs of other refrigerators before deciding on its final form.
(E) The distinctive features of a suspension bridge reflect its designer's conceptualization as well as the physical requirements of its site.

4. Which of the following statements would best serve as an introduction to the passage?
(A) The assumption that the knowledge incorporated in technological developments must be derived from science ignores the many nonscientific decisions made by technologists.
(B) Analytical thought is no longer a vital component in the success of technological development.
(C) As knowledge of technology has increased, the tendency has been to lose sight of the important role played by scientific thought in making decisions about form, arrangement, and texture.
(D) A movement in engineering colleges toward a technician's degree reflects a demand for graduates who have the nonverbal reasoning ability that was once common among engineers.

5. The author calls the predicament faced by the Historic American Engineering Record "paradoxical" most probably because
(A) the publication needed drawings that its own staff could not make
(B) architectural schools offered but did not require engineering design courses for their students
(C) college students were qualified to make the drawings while practicing engineers were not
(D) the drawings needed were so complicated that even students in architectural schools had difficulty making them.
(E) engineering students were not trained to make the type of drawings needed to record the development of their own discipline

6. According to the passage, random failures in automatic control systems are "not merely trivial aberrations" because
(A) automatic control systems are designed by engineers who have little practical experience in the field
(B) the failures are characteristic of systems designed by engineers relying too heavily on concepts in mathematics
(C) the failures occur too often to be taken lightly
(D) designers of automatic control systems have too little training in the analysis of mechanical difficulties
(E) designers of automatic control systems need more help from scientists who have a better understanding of the analytical problems to be solved before such systems can work efficiently

7. The author uses the example of the early models of high-speed railroad cars primarily to
(A) weaken the argument that modern engineering systems have major defects because of an absence of design courses in engineering curricula
(B) support the thesis that the number of errors in modern engineering systems is likely to increase
(C) illustrate the idea that courses in design are the most effective means for reducing the cost of designing engineering systems
(D) support the contention that a lack of attention to the nonscientific aspects of design results in poor conceptualization by engineers
(E) weaken the proposition that mathematics is a necessary part of the study of design

??:
Passage 1: DBDE
Passafe 2: CBACE EA
Passage 3: BAEAE BD


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ????

GRE?????
It is possible for students to obtain advanced degrees in
English while knowing little or nothing about traditional
scholarly methods. The consequences of this neglect of
traditional scholarship are particularly unfortunate for the
(5) study of women writers. If the canon-the list of authors
whose works are most widely taught-is ever to include
more women, scholars must be well trained in historical
scholarship and textual editing. Scholars who do not know
how to read early manuscripts, locate rare books, establish
(10)a sequence of editions, and so on are bereft of crucial tools
for revising the canon.
To address such concerns, an experimental version of
the traditional scholarly methods course was designed to
raise students' consciousness about the usefulness of
(15)traditional learning for any modern critic or theorist. To
minimize the artificial aspects of the conventional course,
the usual procedure of assigning a large number of small
problems drawn from the entire range of historical periods
was abandoned, though this procedure has the obvious
(20)advantage of at least superficially familiarizing students
with a wide range of reference sources. Instead students
were engaged in a collective effort to do original work on
a neglected eighteenth-century writer, Elizabeth Griffith, to
give them an authentic experience of literary scholarship
(25)and to inspire them to take responsibility for the quality of
their own work.
Griffith's work presented a number of advantages for
this particular pedagogical purpose. First, the body of
extant scholarship on Griffith was so tiny that it could all
(30)be read in a day; thus students spent little time and effort
mastering the literature and had a clear field for their own
discoveries. Griffith's play The Platonic Wife exists in three
versions, enough to provide illustrations of editorial issues
but not too many for beginning students to manage. In addi-
(35)tion, because Griffith was successful in the eighteenth cen-
tury, as her continued productivity and favorable reviews
demonstrate, her exclusion from the canon and virtual dis-
appearance from literary history also helped raise issues
concerning the current canon.
(40) The range of Griffith's work meant that each student
could become the world's leading authority on a particular
Griffith text. For example, a student studying Griffith's
Wife in the Right obtained a first edition of the play and
studied it for some weeks. This student was suitably
(45)shocked and outraged to find its title transformed into A
Wife in the Night in Watt's Bibliotheca Britannica. Such
experiences, inevitable and common in working on a writer
to whom so little attention has been paid, serve to vaccinate
the student ---I hope for a lifetime-against credulous use
of reference sources.

1.The author of the passage suggests that which of the
following is a disadvantage of the strategy employed in
the experimental scholarly methods course?
(A) Students were not given an opportunity to study
women writers outside the canon.
(B) Students' original work would not be appreciated
by recognized scholars.
(C) Little scholarly work has been done on the work
of Elizabeth Griffith.
(D) Most of the students in the course had had little
opportunity to study eighteenth-century literature.
(E) Students were not given an opportunity to encoun-
ter certain sources of information that could
prove useful in their future studies.

2.It can be inferred that the author of the passage con-
siders traditional scholarly methods courses to be
(A) irrelevant to the work of most students
(B) inconsequential because of their narrow focus
(C) unconcerned about the accuracy of reference
sources
(D) too superficial to establish important facts about
authors
(E) too wide-ranging to approximate genuine scholarly
activity

Experiments show that insects can function as pollinators
of cycads, rare, palmlike tropical plants. Furthermore, cycads
removed from their native habitats-and therefore from
insects native to those habitats-are usually infertile. Nev-
(5) ertheless, anecdotal reports of wind pollination in cycads
cannot be ignored. The structure of cycads male cones is
quite consistent with the wind dispersal of pollen, clouds
of which are released from some of the larger cones. The
male cone of Cycas circinalis, for example, sheds almost
(10)100 cubic centimeters of pollen, most of which is probably
dispersed by wind. Still, many male cycad cones are com-
paratively small and thus produce far less pollen. Further-
more, the structure of most female cycad cones seems incon-
sistent with direct pollination by wind. Only in the Cycas
(15)genus are the females' ovules accessible to airborne pollen,
since only in this genus are the ovules surrounded by a
loose aggregation of megasporophylls rather than by a tight
cone.

3.According to the passage, the size of a male cycad
cone directly influences which of the following?
(A) The arrangement of the male cone's structural
elements
(B) The mechanism by which pollen is released from
the male cone.
(C) The degree to which the ovules of female cycads
are accessible to airborne pollen
(D) The male cone's attractiveness to potential insect
pollinators
(E) The amount of pollen produced by the male cone

4.The passage suggests that which of the following is
true of scientific investigations of cycad pollination?
(A) They have not yet produced any systematic evi-
dence of wind pollination in cycads.
(B) They have so far confirmed anecdotal reports con-
cerning the wind pollination of cycads.
(C) They have, until recently, produced little evidence
in favor of insect pollination in cycads.
(D) They have primarily been carried out using cycads
transplanted from their native habitats.
(E) They have usually concentrated on describing the
physical characteristics of the cycad reproductive
system.

As people age, their cells become less efficient and
less able to replace damaged components. At the same
time their tissues stiffen. For example, the lungs and the
heart muscle expand less successfully, the blood vessels
(5) become increasingly rigid, and the ligaments and tendons
tighten.
Few investigators would attribute such diverse effects
to a single cause. Nevertheless, researchers have discov-
ered that a process long known to discolor and toughen
(10)foods may also contribute to age- related impairment of
both cells and tissues. That process is nonenzymatic
glycosylation, whereby glucose becomes attached to pro-
teins without the aid of enzymes. When enzymes attach
glucose to proteins (enzymatic glycosylation), they do so
(15)at a specific site on a specific protein molecule for a
specific purpose. In contrast, the nonenzymatic process
adds glucose haphazardly to any of several sites along
any available peptide chain within a protein molecule.
This nonenzymatic glycosylation of certain proteins
(20)has been understood by food chemists for decades,
although few biologists recognized until recently that the
same steps could take place in the body. Nonenzymatic
glycosylation begins when an aldehyde group (CHO) of
glucose and an amino group (NH2) of a protein are
(25)attracted to each other. The molecules combine, forming
what is called a Schiff base within the protein. This com-
bination is unstable and quickly rearranges itself into a
stabler, but still reversible, substance known as an
Amadori product.
(30) If a given protein persists in the body for months or
years, some of its Amadori products slowly dehydrate and
rearrange themselves yet again, into new glucose-derived
structures. These can combine with various kinds of mol-
ecules to form irreversible structures named advanced
(35)glycosylation end products (AGE's). Most AGE's are
yellowish brown and fluorescent and have specific spec-
trographic properties. More important for the body, many
are also able to cross-link adjacent proteins, particularly
ones that give structure to tissues and organs. Although
(40)no one has yet satisfactorily described the origin of all
such bridges between proteins, many investigators agree
that extensive cross-linking of proteins probably contrib-
utes to the stiffening and loss of elasticity characteristic
of aging tissues.
(45) In an attempt to link this process with the develop-
ment of cataracts (the browning and clouding of the lens
of the eye as people age), researchers studied the effect
of glucose on solutions of purified crystallin, the major
protein in the lens of the eye. Glucose-free solutions
(50) remained clear, but solutions with glucose caused the
proteins to form clusters, suggesting that the molecules
had become cross-linked. The clusters diffracted light,
making the solution opaque. The researchers also
discovered that the pigmented cross-links in human
(55)cataracts have the brownish color and fluorescence
characteristic of AGE's. These data suggest that
nonenzymatic glycosylation of lens crystallins may
contribute to cataract formation.

5.With which of the following statements concerning
the stiffening of aging tissues would the author most
likely agree?
(A) It is caused to a large degree by an increased
rate of cell multiplication.
(B) It paradoxically both helps and hinders the
longevity of proteins in the human body.
(C) It can be counteracted in part by increased
ingestion of glucose-free foods.
(D) It is exacerbated by increased enzymatic
glycosylation.
(E) It probably involves the nonenzymatic glycosyla-
tion of proteins.

6.According to the passage, which of the following
statements is true of the process that discolors and
toughens foods?
(A) It takes place more slowly than glycosylation in
the human body.
(B) It requires a higher ratio of glucose to protein
than glycosylation requires in the human
body.
(C) It does not require the aid of enzymes to attach
glucose to protein.
(D) It proceeds more quickly when the food
proteins have a molecular structure similar to
that of crystallin proteins.
(E) Its effectiveness depends heavily on the amount
of environmental moisture.

7.According to the passage, which of the following
is characteristic of enzymatic glycosylation of
proteins?
(A) AGE's are formed after a period of months or
years.
(B) Proteins affected by the process are made
unstable.
(C) Glucose attachment impairs and stiffens
tissues.
(D) Glucose is attached to proteins for specific
purposes.
(E) Amino groups combine with aldehyde groups
to form Schiff bases.

8.According to the passage, which of the following
statements is true of Amadori products in proteins?
(A) They are more plentiful in a dehydrated
environment.
(B) They are created through enzymatic
glycosylation.
(C) They are composed entirely of glucose
molecules.
(D) They are derived from Schiff bases.
(E) They are derived from AGE's

9.Which of the following best describes the function
of the third paragraph of the passage (lines 19-29)?
(A) It offers evidence that contradicts the findings
described in the first two paragraphs.
(B) It presents a specific example of the process
discussed in the first two paragraphs.
(C) It explains a problem that the researchers
mentioned in the second paragraph have yet to solve.
(D) It evaluates the research discoveries described
in the previous paragraph.
(E) It begins a detailed description of the process
introduced in the previous two paragraphs.

10.The passage suggests that which of the following
would be LEAST important in determining
whether nonenzymatic glycosylation is likely to
have taken place in the proteins of a particular
tissue?
(A) The likelihood that the tissue has been
exposed to free glucose
(B) The color and spectrographic properties of
structures within the tissue.
(C) The amount of time that the proteins in the
tissue have persisted in the body
(D) The number of amino groups within the
proteins in the tissue
(E) The degree of elasticity that the tissue exhibits

Mary Barton, particularly in its early chapters, is a
moving response to the suffering of the industrial worker
in the England of the 1840's. What is most impressive
about the book is the intense and painstaking effort made
(5) by the author, Elizabeth Gaskell, to convey the experi-
ence of everyday life in working-class homes. Her method
is partly documentary in nature: the novel includes such
features as a carefully annotated reproduction of dialect,
the exact details of food prices in an account of a tea
(10)party, an itemized description of the furniture of the
Bartons' living room, and a transcription (again anno-
tated) of the ballad "The Oldham Weaver." The interest
of this record is considerable, even though the method
has a slightly distancing effect.
(15) As a member of the middle class, Gaskell could
hardly help approaching working-class life as an outside
observer and a reporter, and the reader of the novel is
always conscious of this fact. But there is genuine imag-
inative re-creation in her accounts of the walk in Green
(20)Heys Fields, of tea at the Bartons' house, and of John
Barton and his friend's discovery of the starving family
in the cellar in the chapter "Poverty and Death." Indeed,
for a similarly convincing re-creation of such families'
emotions and responses (which are more crucial than the
(25)material details on which the mere reporter is apt to con-
centrate), the English novel had to wait 60 years for the
early writing of D. H. Lawrence. If Gaskell never quite
conveys the sense of full participation that would
completely authenticate this aspect of Mary Barton, she
(30)still brings to these scenes an intuitive recognition of
feelings that has its own sufficient conviction.
The chapter "Old Alice's History " brilliantly drama-
tizes the situation of that early generation of workers
brought from the villages and the countryside to the
(35)urban industrial centers. The account of Job Legh, the
weaver and naturalist who is devoted to the study of
biology, vividly embodies one kind of response to an
urban industrial environment: an affinity for living
things that hardens, by its very contrast with its environ-
(40)ment,into a kind of crankiness. The early chapters?
about factory workers walking out in spring into Green
Heys Fields; about Alice Wilson, remembering in her
cellar the twig- gathering for brooms in the native village
that she will never again see; about Job Legh, intent on
(45)his impaled insects? capture the characteristic responses
of a generation to the new and crushing experience of
industrialism. The other early chapters eloquently por-
tray the development of the instinctive cooperation with
each other that was already becoming an important
tradition among workers.

11. Which of the following is most closely analogous to
Job Legh in Mary Barton, as that character is
described in the passage?
(A) An entomologist who collected butterflies as a
child
(B) A small-town attorney whose hobby is nature
photography
(C) A young man who leaves his family's dairy
farm to start his own business
(D) A city dweller who raises exotic plants on the
roof of his apartment building
(E) A union organizer who works in a textile mill
under dangerous conditions

As of the late 1980's. neither theorists nor large-
scale computer climate models could accurately predict
whether cloud systems would help or hurt a warming
globe. Some studies suggested that a four percent
(5)increase in stratocumulus clouds over the ocean could
compensate for a doubling in atmospheric carbon diox-
ide, preventing a potentially disastrous planetwide temp-
erature increase. On the other hand, an increase in cirrus
clouds could increase global warming.
(10) That clouds represented the weakest element in cli-
mate models was illustrated by a study of fourteen such
models. Comparing climate forecasts for a world with
double the current amount of carbon dioxide, researchers
found that the models agreed quite well if clouds were
(15)not included. But when clouds were incorporated, a wide
range of forecasts was produced. With such discrepancies
plaguing the models, scientists could not easily predict
how quickly the world's climate would change, nor could
they tell which regions would face dustier droughts or
deadlier monsoons.

12.The information in the passage suggests that sci-
entists would have to answer which of the following
questions in order to predict the effect of clouds on
the warming of the globe?
(A) What kinds of cloud systems will form over the
Earth?
(B) How can cloud systems be encouraged to form
over the ocean?
(C) What are the causes of the projected planetwide
temperature increase?
(D) What proportion of cloud systems are currently
composed of cirrus of clouds?
(E) What proportion of the clouds in the atmosphere
form over land masses?


This is not to deny that the Black gospel music of the
early twentieth century differed in important ways from the
slave spirituals. Whereas spirituals were created and dis-
seminated in folk fashion, gospel music was composed,
(5) published, copyrighted, and sold by professionals. Never-
theless, improvisation remained central to gospel music.
One has only to listen to the recorded repertoire of gospel
songs to realize that Black gospel singers rarely sang a
song precisely the same way twice and never according to
(10)its exact musical notation. They performed what jazz musi-
cians call "head arrangements" proceeding from their own
feelings and from the way "the spirit" moved them at the
time. This improvisatory element was reflected in the man-
ner in which gospel music was published. Black gospel
(15)composers scored the music intended for White singing
groups fully, indicating the various vocal parts and the
accompaniment, but the music produced for Black singers
included only a vocal line and piano accompaniment.

13.Of the following sentences, which is most likely to
have immediately preceded the passage?
(A) Few composers of gospel music drew on traditions
such as the spiritual in creating their songs.
(B) Spirituals and Black gospel music were derived
from the same musical tradition.
(C) The creation and singing of spirituals, practiced by
Black Americans before the Civil War, continued
after the war.
(D) Spirituals and gospel music can be clearly
distinguished from one another.
(E) Improvisation was one of the primary charac-
teristics of the gospel music created by Black
musicians.

The age at which young children begin to make moral
discriminations about harmful actions committed against
themselves or others has been the focus of recent research
into the moral development of children. Until recently,
(5)child psychologists supported pioneer developmentalist Jean.
Piaget in his hypothesis that because of their immaturity,
children under age seven do not take into account the inten-
tions of a person committing accidental or deliberate harm,
but rather simply assign punishment for transgressions on
(10)the basis of the magnitude of the negative consequences
caused. According to Piaget, children under age seven
occupy the first stage of moral development, which is char-
acterized by moral absolutism (rules made by authorities
must be obeyed) and imminent justice (if rules are broken,
(15)punishment will be meted out). Until young children mature,
their moral judgments are based entirely on the effect
rather than the cause of a transgression. However, in recent
research, Keasey found that six- year-old children not only
distinguish between accidental and intentional harm, but
(20)also judge intentional harm as naughtier, regardless of the
amount of damage produced. Both of these findings seem
to indicate that children, at an earlier age than Piaget
claimed, advance into the second stage of moral develop-
ment, moral autonomy, in which they accept social rules
(25)but view them as more arbitrary than do children in the
first stage.
Keasey's research raises two key questions for develop-
mental psychologists about children under age seven: do
they recognize justifications for harmful actions, and do
(30)they make distinctions between harmful acts that are pre-
ventable and those acts that have unforeseen harmful con-
sequences? Studies indicate that justifications excusing
harmful actions might include public duty,self-defense, and
provocation. For example, Nesdale and Rule concluded that
(35)children were capable of considering whether or not an
aggressor's action was justified by public duty: five year
olds reacted very differently to "Bonnie wrecks Ann's
pretend house" depending on whether Bonnie did it "so
somebody won't fall over it" or because Bonnie wanted "to
(40)make Ann feel bad."Thus, a child of five begins to under-
stand that certain harmful actions, though intentional, can
be justified; the constraints of moral absolutism no longer
solely guide their judgments.
Psychologists have determined that during kindergarten
(45)children learn to make subtle distinctions involving harm.
Darley observed that among acts involving unintentional
harm, six-year-old children just entering kindergarten could
not differentiate between foreseeable, and thus preventable,
harm and unforeseeable harm for which the perpetrator
(50)cannot be blamed. Seven months later, however, Darley
found that these same children could make both distinc-
tions, thus demonstrating that they had become morally
autonomous.

14.It can be inferred form the passage that Piaget would
be likely to agree with which of the following state-
ments about the punishment that children under seven
assign to wrongdoing?
(A) The severity of the assigned punishment is deter-
mined by the perceived magnitude of negative
consequences more than by any other factor.
(B) The punishment is to be administered immediately
following the transgression.
(C) The children assign punishment less arbitrarily
than they do when they reach the age of moral
autonomy.
(D) The punishment for acts of unintentional harm is
less severe than it is for acts involving accidental
harm.
(E) The more developmentally immature a child, the
more severe the punishment that the child will
assign.

Proponents of different jazz styles have always argued
that their predecessors, musical style did not include
essential characteristics that define jazz as jazz. Thus,
1940's swing was belittled by beboppers of the 1950's,
(5)who were themselves attacked by free jazzers of the
1960's. The neoboppers of the 1980's and 1990's attacked
almost everybody else. The titanic figure of Black saxo-
phonist John Coltrane has complicated the arguments made
by proponents of styles from bebop through neobop
(10)because in his own musical journey he drew from all those
styles. His influence on all types of jazz was immeasurable.
At the height of his popularity, Coltrane largely abandoned
playing bebop, the style that had brought him fame, to
explore the outer reaches of jazz.
(15) Coltrane himself probably believed that the only essential
characteristic of jazz was improvisation, the one constant
in his journey from bebop to open-ended improvisations on
modal, Indian, and African melodies. On the other hand,
this dogged student and prodigious technician-who
(20)insisted on spending hours each day practicing scales from
theory books-was never able to jettison completely the
influence of bebop, with its fast and elaborate chains of
notes and ornaments on melody.
Two stylistic characteristics shaped the way Coltrane
(25)played the tenor saxophone, he favored playing fast runs
of notes built on a melody and depended on heavy, regu-
larly accented beats. The first led Coltrane to "sheets of
sound." where he raced faster and faster, pile-driving notes
into each other to suggest stacked harmonies. The second
(30)meant that his sense of rhythm was almost as close to rock
as to bebop.
Three recordings illustrate Coltrane's energizing explor-
ations. Recording Kind of Blue with Miles Davis, Coltrane
found himself outside bop, exploring modal melodies. Here
(35)he played surging, lengthy solos built largely around
repeated motifs-an organizing principle unlike that of
free jazz saxophone player Ornette Coleman, who modu-
lated or altered melodies in his solos. On Giant Steps,
Coltrane debuted as leader, introducing his own composi-
(40)tions. Here the sheets of sound, downbeat accents, repe-
titions, and great speed are part of each solo, and the
variety of the shapes of his phrases is unique. Coltrane's
searching explorations produced solid achievement. My
Favorite Things was another kind of watershed. Here
(45)Coltrane played the soprano saxophone, an instrument
seldom used by jazz musicians. Musically, the results were
astounding. With the soprano's piping sound, ideas that had
sounded dark and brooding acquired a feeling of giddy
fantasy.
(50) When Coltrane began recording for the Impulse! label,
he was still searching. His music became raucous, physical.
His influence on rockers was enormous, including Jimi
Hendrix, the rock guitarist, who following Coltrane, raised
the extended guitar solo using repeated motifs to a kind of
rock art form.

15.According to the passage, John Coltrane did all of the
following during his career EXCEPT
(A) improvise on melodies from a number of different
cultures
(B) perform as leader as well as soloist
(C) spend time improving his technical skills
(D) experiment with the sounds of various instruments
(E) eliminate the influence of bebop on his own music

A special mucous coating that serves as a chemical
camouflage allows clown fish to live among the deadly
tentacles of the unsuspecting sea anemone . Utterly
dependent on this unlikely host for protection from
(5)predators, clown fish have evolved in isolated commu-
nities, a pattern that has led to unusual behavioral
adaptations.
The rigidly defined hierarchy of each clown-fish
community is dominated by a monogamous breeding pair
(10)consisting of the largest fish, a female, and the next largest
a male, attended by a fixed number of sexually immature
fish ranging in size from large to tiny. A remarkable
adaptation is that the development of these juveniles is
somehow arrested until the hierarchy changes; then they
(15)crow in lockstep, maintaining their relative sizes. While
the community thus economizes on limited space and food
resources, life is risky for newly spawned clown fish. On
hatching, the hundreds of larvae drift off into the plankton.
If, within three weeks, the defenseless larval clown fish
(20)locates a suitable anemone(either by pure chance or per-
haps guided by chemicals secreted by the anemone), it may
survive. However, if an anemone is fully occupied, the
resident clown fish will repel any newcomer.
Though advantageous for established community mem-
(25)bers, the suspended and staggered maturation of juveniles
might seem to pose a danger to the continuity of the
community: there is only one successor for two breeding
fish. Should one of a pair die, the remaining fish cannot
swim off in search of a mate, nor is one likely to arrive. It
(30)would seem inevitable that reproduction must sometimes
have to halt, pending the chance arrival and maturation of a
larval fish of the appropriate sex.
This, however, turns out not to be the case. In experi-
ments, vacancies have been contrived by removing an
(35)established fish from a community. Elimination of the
breeding male triggers the prompt maturation of the largest
juvenile. Each remaining juvenile also grows somewhat,
and a minuscule newcomer drops in from the plankton.
Removal of the female also triggers growth in all
(40)remaining fish and acceptance of a newcomer, but the
female is replaced by the adult male. Within days, the
male's behavior alters and physiological transformation is
complete within a few months. Thus, whichever of the
breeding pair is lost, a relatively large juvenile can fill
(45)the void, and reproduction can resume with a minimal loss
of time. Furthermore, the new mate has already proved its
ability to survive.
This transformation of a male into a female, or pro-
tandrous hermaphroditism, is rare among reef fish. The
(50)more common protogynous hermaphroditism, where
females change into males, does not occur among clown
fish. An intriguing question for further research is whether
a juvenile clown fish can turn directly into a female or
whether it must function first as a male.

16.It can be inferred from the passage that sex change
would have been less necessary for the clown fish if
(A) the male clown fish were larger than the female
(B) each sea anemone were occupied by several
varieties of clown fish
(C) many mature clown fish of both sexes occupied
each sea anemone
(D) juvenile clown fish had a high mortality rate
(E) both male clown fish and female clown fish were
highly territorial

17.The author mentions all of the following as
characteristic of the "rigidly defined hierarchy"
(line 8) of the clown-fish community EXCEPT:
(A) At any time only one female clown fish can be
reproductively active
(B) The mature clown fish are monogamous
(C) The growth of clown fish is synchronized
(D) The maximum number of clown fish is fixed
(E) There are equal numbers of male juveniles and
female juveniles

18.Which of the following, if true, would be LEAST
consistent with the author's explanation of the
advantage of hermaphroditism for clown fish?
(A) The number of individuals in a clown-fish
community fluctuates significantly
(B) Adult clown fish frequently cannibalize their
young
(C) The sea anemone tolerates clown fish only during
a specific stage of the anemone's life cycle.
(D) Juvenile clown fish rarely reach maturity
(E) Clown-fish communities are capable of efficiently
recruiting solitary adult clown fish

Over the years, biologists have suggested two main
pathways by which sexual selection may have shaped the
evolution of male birdsong. In the first, male competition
and intrasexual selection produce relatively short, simple
songs used mainly in territorial behavior. In the second,
female choice and intersexual selection produce longer,
more complicated songs used mainly in mate attraction;
like such visual ornamentation as the peacock's tail, elabo-
rate vocal characteristics increase the male's chances of
being chosen as a mate, and he thus enjoys more repro-
ductive success than his less ostentatious rivals. The two
pathways are not mutually exclusive, and we can expect to
find examples that reflect their interaction. Teasing them
apart has been an important challenge to evolutionary biol-
ogists.
Early research confirmed the role of intrasexual selection.
In a variety of experiments in the field, males responded
aggressively to recorded songs by exhibiting territorial
behavior near the speakers. The breakthrough for research
into intersexual selection came in the development of a new
technique for investigating female response in the labor-
atory. When female cowbirds raised in isolation in sound-
proof chambers were exposed to recordings of male song,
they responded by exhibiting mating behavior. By quanti-
fying the responses, researchers were able to determine
what particular features of the song were most important.
In further experiments on song sparrows, researchers found
that when exposed to a single song type repeated several
times or to a repertoire of different song types, females
responded more to the latter. The beauty of the experi-
mental design is that it effectively rules out confounding
variables; acoustic isolation assures that the female can
respond only to the song structure itself.
If intersexual selection operates as theorized, males with
more complicated songs should not only attract females
more readily but should also enjoy greater reproductive
success. At first, however, researchers doing fieldwork with
song sparrows found no correlation between larger reper-
toires and early mating, which has been shown to be one
indicator of reproductive success; further, common measures
of male quality used to predict reproductive success, such
as weight, size, age, and territory, also failed to correlate
with song complexity.
The confirmation researchers had been seeking was
finally achieved in studies involving two varieties of war-
blers. Unlike the song sparrow, which repeats one of its
several song types in bouts before switching to another, the
warbler continuously composes much longer and more vari-
able songs without repetition. For the first time, researchers
found a significant correlation between repertoire size and
early mating, and they discovered further that repertoire
size had a more significant effect than any other measure
of male quality on the number of young produced. The evi-
dence suggests that warblers use their extremely elaborate
songs primarily to attract females, clearly confirming the
effect of intersexual selection on the evolution of birdsong

19. The passage is primarily concerned with
(A) showing that intrasexual selection has a greater
effect on birdsong than does intersexual selection
(B) contrasting the role of song complexity in several
species of birds
(C) describing research confirming the suspected rela-
tionship between intersexual selection and the
complexity of birdsong
(D) demonstrating the superiority of laboratory work
over field studies in evolutionary biology
(E) illustrating the effectiveness of a particular
approach to experimental design in evolutionary
biology

An experiment conducted aboard Space Lab in 1983 was
the first attempt to grow protein crystals in the low-gravity
environment of space. That experiment is still cited as evi-
dence that growing crystals in microgravity can increase
crystal size: the authors reported that they grew lysozyme
protein crystals 1,000 times larger than crystals grown in
the same device on Earth. Unfortunately, the authors did
not point out that their crystals were no larger than the
average crystal grown using other, more standard tech-
niques in an Earth laboratory.
No research has yet produced results that could justify
the enormous costs of producing crystals on a large scale in
space. To get an unbiased view of the usefulness of micro-
gravity crystal growth, crystals grown in space must be
compared with the best crystals that have been grown with
standard techniques on Earth. Given the great expense of
conducting such experiments with proper controls, and the
limited promise of experiments performed thus far, it is
questionable whether further experiments in this area
should even be conducted.

20.According to the passage, which of the following
is true about the Space Lab experiment conducted in 1983?
(A) It was the first experiment to take place in the
microgravity environment of space.
(B) It was the first experiment in which researchers
in space were able to grow lysozyme protein
crystals greater in size than those grown on
Earth.
(C) Its results have been superseded by subsequent
research in the field of microgravity protein
crystal growth.
(D) Its results are still considered by some to be
evidence for the advantages of microgravity
protein crystal growth.
(E) Its results are considered by many to be invalid
because nonstandard techniques were employed.

21 The passage suggests that the author would most prob-
ably agree with which of the following assessments of
the results of the Space Lab experiment?
(A) Although the results of the experiment are
impressive, the experiment was too limited in
scope to allow for definitive conclusions.
(B) The results of the experiment are impressive on
the surface, but the report is misleading.
(C) The results of the experiment convincingly
confirm what researchers have long suspected.
(D) Because of design flaws, the experiment did not
yield any results relevant to the issue under
investigation.
(E) The results of the experiment are too contradictory
to allow for easy interpretation.

In 1923 the innovative Russian filmmaker Dziga Vertov
described filmmaking as a process that leads viewers toward
a "fresh perception of the world." Vertov's description of
filmmaking should apply to films on the subject of art. Yet
films on art have not had a powerful and pervasive effect
on the way we see.
Publications on art flourish, but these books and articles
do not necessarily succeed in teaching us to see more deeply
or more clearly. Much writing in art history advances the
discourse in the field but is unlikely to inform the eye of
one unfamiliar with its polemics. Films, however, with their
capacity to present material visually and to reach a broader
audience, have the potential to enhance visual literacy (the
ability to identify the details that characterize a particular
style) more effectively than publications can. Unfortunately,
few of the hundred or so films on art that are made each
year in the United States are broadcast nationally on prime-
time television.
The fact that films on art are rarely seen on prime-time
television may be due not only to limitations on distribution
but also to the shortcomings of many such films. Some of
these shortcomings can be attributed to the failure of art
historians and filmmakers to collaborate closely enough
when making films on art. These professionals are able,
within their respective disciplines, to increase our aware-
ness of visual forms. For close collaboration to occur,
professionals in each discipline need to recognize that films
on art can be both educational and entertaining, but this
will require compromise on both sides.
A filmmaker who is creating a film about the work of
an artist should not follow the standards set by rock videos
and advertising. Filmmakers need to resist the impulse to
move the camera quickly from detail to detail for fear of
boring the viewer, to frame the image for the sake of drama
alone, to add music for fear of silence. Filmmakers are
aware that an art object demands concentration and, at the
same time, are concerned that it may not be compelling
enough?and so they hope to provide relief by interposing
"real" scenes that bear only a tangential relationship to the
subject. But a work of art needs to be explored on its own
terms. On the other hand, art historians need to trust that
one can indicate and analyze, not solely with words, but
also by directing the viewer's gaze. The specialized written
language of art history needs to be relinquished or at least
tempered for the screen. Only an effective collaboration
between filmmakers and art historians can create films that
will enhance viewers' perceptions of art.

22.The passage suggests that a filmmaker desiring to
enhance viewers' perceptions of art should do which of
the following?
(A) Rely on the precise language of art history when
developing scripts for films on art.
(B) Rely on dramatic narrative and music to set a
film's tone and style.
(C) Recognize that a work of art by itself can be
compelling enough to hold a viewer's attention
(D) Depend more strongly on narration instead of
camera movements to guide the viewer's gaze.
(E) Emphasize the social and the historical contexts
within which works of art have been created.

23.which the following would describe the author's
most likely reaction to a claim that films on art would
more successfully promote visual literacy if they
followed the standards set for rock videos?
(A) Ambivalence
(B) Indifference
(C) Sympathy
(D) Interest
(E) Disdain


Investigators of monkeys' social behavior have always been
struck by monkeys' aggressive potential and the con-
sequent need for social control of their aggressive behavior.
Studies directed at describing aggressive behavior and the
(5) situations that elicit it, as well as the social mechanisms
that control it, were therefore among the first investigations
of monkeys' social behavior.
Investigators initially believed that monkeys would
compete for any resource in the environment: hungry
(10) monkeys would fight over food, thirsty monkeys would
fight over water, and, in general, any time more than one
monkey in a group sought the same incentive simulta
neously, a dispute would result and would be resolved
through some form of aggression. However, the motivating
(15) force of competition for incentives began to be doubted
when experiments like Southwick's on the reduction of
space or the withholding of food failed to produce more
than temporary increases in intragroup aggression. Indeed,
food deprivation not only failed to increase aggression but
(20) in some cases actually resulted in decreased frequencies of
aggression.
Studies of animals in the wild under conditions of
extreme food deprivation likewise revealed that starving
monkeys devoted almost all available energy to foraging,
(25) with little energy remaining for aggressive interaction.
Furthermore, accumulating evidence from later studies of a
variety of primate groups, for example, the study con-
ducted by Bernstein, indicates that one of the most potent
stimuli for eliciting aggression is the introduction of an
(30) intruder into an organized group. Such introductions result
in far more serious aggression than that produced in any
other types of experiments contrived to produce com-
petition.
These studies of intruders suggest that adult members
(35) of the same species introduced to one another for the first
time show considerable hostility because, in the absence
of a social order, one must be established to control
interanimal relationships. When a single new animal is
introduced into an existing social organization, the
(40) newcomer meets even more serious aggression. Whereas in
the first case aggression establishes a social order, in the
second case resident animals mob the intruder, thereby
initially excluding the new animal from the existing social
unit. The simultaneous introduction of several animals
(45) lessens the effect, if only because the group divides its
attention among the multiple targets. If, however, the
several animals introduced to a group constitute their own
social unit, each group may fight the opposing group as a
unit; but, again, no individual is subjected to mass attack,
(50) and the very cohesion of the groups precludes prolonged
individual combat. The submission of the defeated group,
rather than unleashing unchecked aggression on the
part of the victorious group, reduces both the intensity
and frequency of further attack. Monkey groups
(55) therefor see to be organized primarily to maintain
their established social order rather than to engage in
hostilities per se.

24. It can be inferred from the passage that the
establishment and preservation of social order
among a group of monkeys is essential in order
to
(A) keep the monkeys from straying and joining
other groups
(B) control aggressive behavior among group
members
(C) prevent the domination of that group by
another
(D) protect individuals seeking to become
members of that group from mass attack
(E) prevent aggressive competition for incentives
between that group and another

25. The passage supplies information to answer
which of the following questions?
(A) How does the reduction of space affect
intragroup aggression among monkeys in an
experimental setting?
(B) Do family units within a monkey social group
compete with other family units for food?
(C) What are the mechanisms by which the social
order of an established group of monkeys
controls aggression within that group?
(D) How do monkeys engaged in aggression with
other monkeys signal submission?


Bracken fern has been spreading from its woodland
strongholds for centuries, but the rate of encroachment into
open countryside has lately increased alarmingly through-
out northern and western Britain. A tough competitor,
5) bracken reduces the value of grazing land by crowding out
other vegetation. The fern is itself poisonous to livestock,
and also encourages proliferation of sheep ticks, which not
only attack sheep but also transmit diseases. No less impor-
tant to some people are bracken's effects on threatened
10) habitats and on the use of uplands for recreational pur-
poses, even though many appreciate its beauty.
Biological controls may be the only economic solution.
One potentially cheap and self-sustaining method of halting
the spread of bracken is to introduce natural enemies of the
15) plant. Initially unrestrained by predators of their own,
foreign predators are likely to be able to multiply rapidly
and overwhelm intended targets. Because bracken occurs
throughout the world, there is plenty of scope for this
approach. Two candidates, both moths from the Southern
20) Hemisphere, are now being studied.
Of course, biological control agents can safely be
eleased only if it can be verified that they feed solely on
he target weed. The screening tests have so far been
raught with difficulties. The first large shipment of moths
25) succumbed to a disease. Growing enough bracken indoors
is dfficult, and the moths do not readily exploit cut stems.
These are common problems with rearing insects for bio-
logical control.
Other problems can be foreseen. Policymakers need to
30) consider many factors and opinions such as the cost of
control compared to existing methods, and the impact of
the clearance of bracken on the landscape, wildlife, and
vegetation. In fact, scientists already have much of the
information needed to assess the impact of biological
35) control of bracken, but it is spread among many individ-
uals, organizations, and government bodies. The potential
gains for the environment are likely to outweigh the losses
because few plants, insects, mammals, and birds live
associated only with bracken, and many would benefit
40) from a return of other vegetation or from a more diverse
mosaic of habitats. But legal consequences of attempts at
biological control present a potential minefield. For exam-
ple, many rural tenants still have the right of "estoyers"
the right to cut bracken as bedding for livestock and
45) uses. What would happen if they were deprived of these
rights? Once a biological control agent is released, it is
difficult to control its speed. What consideration is due
landowners who do not want to control bracken? Accord-
ing to law, the release of the biological control agents must be
50) authorized by the secretary of state for the environment.
But Britain lacks the legal and administrative machinery to
assemble evidence for and against release.

26. The final paragraph can best be
described as
(A) a summation of arguments
presented in previous paragraphs
(B) the elimination of competing
arguments to strengthen a single
remaining conclusion
(C) an enumeration of advantages to
biological control
(D) an expansion of the discussion
from the particular example of
bracken control to the general
problem of government
regulation
(E) an overview of the variety of
factors requiring further
assessment

27. As it is discussed in the passage, the
place of bracken within the forest
habitat can best be described as
(A) rapidly expanding
(B) the subject of controversy
(C) well established
(D) circumscribed by numerous
predators
(E) a significant nutrient source

Much of the research on hallucinogenic drugs such
as LSD has focused on the neurotransmitter serotonin,
a chemical that when released from a presynaptic
serotonin-secreting neuron causes the transmission of
(5) a nerve impulse across a synapse to an adjacent
postsynaptic, or target, neuron. There are two major
reasons for this emphasis. First, it was discovered
early on that many of the major hallucinogens have a
molecular structure similar to that of serotonin. In
(10) addition, animal studies of brain neurochemistry
following administration of hallucinogens invariably
reported changes in serotonin levels.
Early investigators correctly reasoned that the
structural similarity to the serotonin molecule might
(15) imply that LSD's effects are brought about by an
action on the neurotransmission of serotonin in the
brain. Unfortunately, the level of technical expertise
in the field of brain research was such that this
hypothesis had to be tested on peripheral tissue
(20) (tissue outside the brain). Two different groups of
scientists reported that LSD powerfully blockaded
serotonin's action. Their conclusions were quickly
challenged, however. We now know that the action
of a drug at one site in the body does not necessarily
(25) correspond to the drug's action at another site,
especially when one site is in the brain and the other
is not.
By the 1960's, technical advances permitted the
direct testing of the hypothesis that LSD and related
(30) hallucinogens act by directly suppressing the activity
of serotonin-secreting neurons themselves-the so-
called presynaptic hypothesis. Researchers reasoned
that if the hllucinogenic drugs act by suppressing the
activity of serotonin-secreting neurons, then drugs
(35) administered after these neurons had been destroyed
should have no effect on behavior, because the
system would already be maximally suppressed.
Contrary to their expectations, neuron destruction
enhanced the effect of LSD and related hallucinogens
(40) on behavior. Thus, hallucinogenic drugs apparently
do not act directly on serotonin-secreting neurons.
However, these and other available data do support
an alternative hypothesis, that LSD and related drugs
act directly at receptor sites on serotonin target
(45) neurons (the postsynaptic hypothesis). The fact that
LSD elicits "serotonin syndrome" -that is, causes
the same kinds of behaviors as does the adminis-
tration of serotonin-in animals whose brains are
depleted of serotonin indicates that LSD acts directly
(50)on serotonin receptors, rather than indirectly through
the release of stores of serotonin. The enhanced effect
of LSD reported after serotonin depletion could be
due to a proliferation of serotonin receptor sites on
serotonin target neurons. This phenomenon often
(55) follows neuron destruction or neurotransmitter
depletion; the increase in the number of receptor sites
appears to be a compensatory response to decreased
input. Significantly, this hypothesis is supported by
data from a number of different laboratories.

28. Which of the following best expresses the main
idea of the passage?
(A) Research has suggested that the
neurotransmitter serotonin is responsible for
the effects of hallucinogenic drogs on the
brain and on behavior.
(B) Researchers have spent an inadequate amount
of time developing theories concerning the way
in which the effects of hallucinogenic drugs occur.
(C) Research results strongly suggest that
hallucinogenic drugs create their effects by
acting on the serotonin receptor sites located
on target neurons in the brain.
(D) Researchers have recently made valuable
discoveries concerning the effects of
depleting the amount of serotonin in the
brain.
(E) Researchers have concluded that hallucinogenic
drugs suppress the activity of serotonin-secreting
neurons.

29. The research described in the passage is
primarily concerned with answering which of
the following questions?
(A) How can researchers control the effects that
LSD has on behavior?
(B) How are animals' reactions to LSD different
from those of human beings?
(C) What triggers the effects that LSD has on
human behavior?
(D) What technical advances would permit
researchers to predict more accurately the
effects of LSD on behavior?
(E) What relationship does the suppression of
neuron activity have to the occurrence of
"serotonin syndrome"?

30. Which of the following best defines "serotonin
syndrome" (line 46) as the term is used in the
passage?
(A) The series of behaviors, usually associated
with the administration of serotonin, that also
occurs when LSD is administered to animals
whose brains are depleted of serotonin
(B) The series of behaviors, usually associated
with the administration of LSD, that also
occurs when the amount of serotonin in the
brain is reduced
(C) The maximal suppression of neuron activity
that results from the destruction of serotonin-
secreting neurons
(D) The release of stores of serotonin from
serotonin-secreting neurons in the brain
(E) The proliferation of serotonin receptor sites
that follows depletion of serotonin supplies in
the brain

31. Which of the following best describes the
organization of the argument that the author of
the passage presents in the last two paragraphs?
(A) Two approaches to testing a hypothesis are
described, and the greater merits of one
approach are indicated.
(B) The assumptions underlying two hypotheses
are outlined, and evidence for and against
each hypothesis is discussed.
(C) A phenomenon is described, and hypotheses
concerning its occurrence are considered and
rejected.
(D) The reasoning behind a hypothesis is
summarized, evidence supporting the
hypothesis is presented, and research that
counters the supporting evidence is
described.
(E) A hypothesis is discussed, evidence
undermining the hypothesis is revealed, and a
further hypothesis based on the undermining
evidence is explained

32. The author's attitude toward early researchers'
reasoning concerning the implications of
similarities in the structures of serotonin and
LSD molecules can best be described as one of
(A) complete agreeement
(B) reluctant support
(C) subtle condescension
(D) irreverent dismissal
(E) strong opposition

The origin of the theory that major geologic events
may occur at regular intervals can be traced back not
to a study of volcanism or plate tectonics but to an
investigation of marine extinctions. In the early 1980's,
(5) scientists began to look closely at the question of how
these extinctions occur. Two paleontologists, Raup
and Sepkoski, compiled amaster list of marine species
that died out duringthe past 268 million years and
noted that there were brief periods during which
(10) many species disappeared at once. These mass extinc-
tions occurred at surprisingly regular intervals.
Later studies revealed that extinctions of terrestrial
reptiles and mammals also occurred periodically.
These findings, combined with the research of Raup
(15) and Sepkoski, led scientists to hypothesize the
existence of some kind of cyclically recurring force
powerful enough to affect living things profoundly.
Speculation that so powerful a force might affect
gelogic events as well led geologists to search for
(20) evidence of periodicity in episodes of volcanism,
seafloor spreading, and plate movement.

33. The author of the passage is primarily
concerned with
(A) determining the dates of various geologic
events
(B) defending the conclusions reached by
Raup and Sepkoski
(C) establishing a link between the disciplines
of paleontology and geology
(D) proving that mass extinctions of marine
animals occur periodcally
(E) explaining how a theory concerning
geologic events was formulated

A recent history of the Chicago meat-packing
industry and its workers examines how the industry
grew from its appearance in the 1830's through the
early 1890's. Meat-packers, the author argues, had
(5) good wages, working conditions, and prospects for
advancement within the packinghouses, and did not
cooperate with labor agitators since labor relations
were so harmonious. Because the history maintains
that conditions were above standard for the era, the
(10) frequency of labor disputes, especially in the mid-
1880's, is not accounted for. The work ignores the
fact that the 1880's were crucial years in American
labor history, and that the packinghouse workers'
efforts were part of the national movement for labor
(15) reform.
In fact, other historical sources for the late nine-
teenth century record deteriorating housing and high
disease and infant mortality rates in the industrial
community, due to low wages and unhealthy working
(20) conditions. Additional data from the University of
Chicago suggest that the packinghouses were danger-
ous places to work. The government investigation
commissioned by President Theodore Roosevelt
which eventually led to the adoption of the 1906
(25) Meat Inspection Act found the packinghouses
unsanitary, while social workers observed that most
of the workers were poorly paid and overworked.
The history may be too optimistic because most of
its data date from the 1880's at the latest, and the infor-
(30) mation provided from that decade is insufficiently
analyzed. Conditions actually declined in the 1880's,
and continued to decline after the 1880's, due to a
reorganization of the packing process and a massive
influx of unskilled workers. The deterioration in
(35) worker status, partly a result of the new availability of
unskilled and hence cheap labor, is not discussed.
Though a detailed account of work in the packing-
houses is attempted, the author fails to distinguish
between the wages and conditions for skilled workers
(40) and for those unskilled laborers who comprised the
majority of the industry's workers from the 1880's
on. While conditions for the former were arguably
tolerable due to the strategic importance of skilled
workers in the complicated slaughtering, cutting, and
(45) packing process (though worker complaints about the
rate and conditions of work were frequent), pay and
conditions for the latter were wretched.
The author's misinterpretation of the origins of the
feelings the meat-packers had for their industrial
(50) neighborhood may account for the history's faulty
generalizations. The pride and contentment the author
remarks upon were, arguably, less the products of the
industrial world of the packers ---- the giant yards and
the intricate plants ---- than of the unity and vibrance
(55)of the ethnic cultures that formed a viable community
on Chicago's South Side. Indeed, the strength of this
community succeeded in generating a social movement
that effectively confronted the problems of the industry
that provided its livelihood.

34. The passage is primarily concerned with discussing
(A) how historians ought to explain the origins
of the conditions in the Chicago meat-
packing industry
(B) why it is difficult to determine the actual
nature of the conditions in the Chicago
meat-packing industry
(C) why a particular account of the conditions
in the Chicago meat-packing industry is
inaccurate
(D) what ought to be included in any account
of the Chicago meat-packers' role in the
national labor movement
(E) what data are most relevant for an accurate
account of the relations between Chicago
meat-packers and local labor agitators

35. The author of the passage mentions all of the
following as describing negative conditions in
the meat-packing industry EXCEPT
(A) data from the University of Chicago
(B) a recent history of the meat-packing
industry
(C) social workers
(D) historical sources for the late nineteenth
century
(E) government records

36. The author of the passage uses the second
paragraph to
(A) summarize the main point of the history
discussed in the passage
(B) explain why the history discussed in the
passage has been disparaged by critics
(C) evaluate the findings of recent studies that
undermine the premises of the history
discussed in the passage
(D) introduce a hypothesis that will be discussed in
detail later in the passage
(E) present evidence that is intended to refute
the argument of the history discussed in the
passage

When we consider great painters of the past, the
study of art and the study of illusion cannot always be
separated. By illusion I mean those contrivances of
line color, line, shape, and so forth that lead us to see
(5) marks on a flat surface as depicting three-dimensional
objects in space. I must emphasize that I am not
making a plea, disguised or otherwise, for the exer-
cise of illusionist tricks in painting today, although
I am, in fact, rather critical of certain theories of non-
(10) representational art. But to argue over these theories
would be to miss the point. That the discoveries and
effects of representation that were the pride of earlier
artists have become trivial today I would not deny for
a moment. Yet I believe that we are in real danger of
(15) losing contact with past masters if we accept the
fashionable doctrine that such matters never had
anything to do with art. The very reason why the
representation of nature can now be considered
something commonplace should be of the greatest
(20) interest to art historians. Never before has there been
an age when the visual image was so cheap in every
sense of the word. We are surrounded and assailed by
posters and advertisements, comics and magazine
illustrations. We see aspects of reality represented
(25) on television, postage stamps, and food packages.
Painting is taught in school and practiced as a
pastime, and many modest amateurs have mastered
tricks that would have looked like sheer magic to the
fourteenth-century painter Giotto. Even the crude
(30) colored renderings on a cereal box might have made
Giotto's contemporaries gasp. Perhaps there are
people who conclude from this that the cereal box is
superior to a Giotto; I do not. But I think- that the
victory and vulgarization of representational skills
(35) create a problem for both art historians and critics.
In this connection it is instructive to remember the
Greek saying that to marvel is the beginning of
knowledge and if we cease to marvel we may be in
danger of ceasing to know. I believe we must restore
(40) our sense of wonder at the capacity to conjure up by
forms, lines, shades, or colors those mysterious
phantoms of visual reality we call "pictures." Even
comics and advertisements, rightly viewed, provide
food for thought. Just as the study of poetry remains
(45) incomplete without an awareness of the language of
prose, so, I believe, the study of art will be increasingly
supplemented by inquiry into the "linguistics" of the
visual image. The way the language of art refers to
the visible world is both so obvious and so myste-
(50) rious that it is still largely unknown except to artist.
who use it as we use all language - without needing
to know its grammar and semantics.

37. The author of the passage explicitly, disagrees with which of the following statements'
(A) In modern society even nonartists can master techniques that great artists of the fourteenth century did not employ.
(B) The ability to represent a three-dimensional object on a flat surface has nothing to do with art.
(C) In modern society the victory of representational skills has created a problem for art critics.
(D) The way that artists are able to represent the visible world is an area that needs a great deal more study before it can be fully understood.
(E) Modern painters do not frequently make use of illusionist tricks in their work.

38. The author suggests which of the following about art historians?
(A) They do not believe that illusionist tricks have become trivial.
(B) They generally spend little time studying contemporary artists.
(C) They have not given enough consideration to how the representation of nature has become commonplace.
(D) They generally tend to argue about theories rather than address substantive issues.
(E) They are less likely than art critics to study comics or advertisements.

39. Which of the following best states the author's attitude toward comics, as expressed in the passage?
(A) They constitute an innovative art form.
(B) They can be a worthwhile subject for study.
(C) They are critically important to an under-standing of modem art.
(D) Their -visual structure is more complex than that of medieval art.
(E) They can be understood best if they are examined in conjunction with advertisements.

40.The author's statement regarding how artists use the language of art (lines 48-52) implies that
(A)artists are better equipped than are art historians to provide detailed evaluations of other artists' work
(B)many artists have an unusually quick, intuitive understanding of language
(C)artists can produce works of art even if they cannot analyze their methods of doing so
(D) artists of the past, such as Giotto, were better educated about artistic issues than were artists of the author's time
(E) most artists probably consider the processes involved in their work to be closely akin to those involved in writing poetry


41. The passage asserts which of the following about commercial art?
(A) There are many examples of commercial art whose artistic merit is equal to that of great works of art of the past.
(B) Commercial art is heavily influenced by whatever doctrines are fashionable in the serious art world of the time.
(C) The line between commercial art and great art lies primarily in how an image is used, not in the motivation for its creation.
(D) The level of technical skill required to produce representational imagery in commercial art and in other kinds of art cannot be compared.
(E) The pervasiveness of contemporary commercial art has led art historians to undervalue representational skills.

42. Which of the following can be inferred from the passage, about the adherents of "certain theories of nonrepresentational art" (lines 9-10) ?
(A) They consider the use of illusion to be inappropriate in contemporary art.
(B) They do not agree that marks on a flat surface can ever satisfactorily convey the illusion of three-dimensional space.
(C) They do not discuss important works of art created in the past.
(D) They do not think that the representation of nature was ever the primary goal of past painters.
(E) They concern themselves more with types art such as advertisements and magazine illustrations than with traditional art.

43. It can be inferred from the passage that someone who wanted to analyze the "grammar and semantics" (line52) of the language of art would most appropriately comment on which of the following?
(A) The relationship between the drawings in a comic strip and the accompanying text
(B) The amount of detail that can be included in a tiny illustration on a postage stamp
(C) The sociological implications of the images chosen to advertise a particular product
(D) The degree to which various colors used in different versions of the same poster would attract the attention of passersby
(E) The particular juxtaposition of shapes in an illustration that makes one shape look as though it were behind another

The 1973 Endangered Species Act made into legal
policy the concept that endangered species of wildlife
are precious as part of a natural ecosystem. The nearly
unanimous passage of this act in the United States
(5) Congress, reflecting the rising national popularity of
environmentalism, masked a bitter debate. Affected
industries clung to the former wildlife policy of
valuing individual species according to their economic
usefulness. They fought to minimize the law's impact
(10) by limiting definitions of key terms, but they lost on
nearly every issue. The act defined "wildlife" as
almost all kinds of animals-from large mammals to
invertebrates-and plants. "Taking" wildlife was
defined broadly as any action that threatened an
(15) endangered species; areas vital to a species' survival
could be federally protected as "critical habitats"
Though these definitions legislated strong environ-
mentalist goals, political compromises made in the
enforcement of the act were to determine just what
(20) economic interests would be set aside for the sake of
ecological stabilization.

44. According to the passage, which of the following does the Endangered Species Act define as a "critical habitat"?
(A) A natural ecosystem that is threatened by imminent development
(B) An industrial or urban area in which wildlife species have almost ceased to live among humans
(C) A natural area that is crucial to the survival of a species and thus eligible for federal protection
(D) A wilderness area in which the "taking" of wildlife species is permitted rarely and only under strict federal regulation
(E) A natural environment that is protected under law because its wildlife has a high economic value

45.According to the passage, which of the following is an explanation for the degree of support that the Endangered Species Act received in Congress?
(A) Concern for the environment had gained increasing national popularity.
(B) Ecological research had created new economic opportunities dependent on the survival of certain species.
(C) Congress had long wanted to change the existing wildlife policy.
(D) The growth of industry had endangered increasing numbers of wildlife species.
(E) Legislators did not anticipate that the act could be effectively enforced.

46. It can be inferred from the passage that if business interests had won the debate on provisions of the 1973 Endangered Species Act, which of the following would have resulted?
(A) Environmentalist concepts would not have become widely popular.
(B) The definitions of key terms of the act would have been more restricted.
(C) Enforcement of the act would have been more difficult.
(D) The act would have had stronger support from Congressional leaders.
(E) The public would have boycotted the industries that had the greatest impact in defining the act.

47. The author refers to the terms "wildlife" (line 11), "taking" (line 13), and "critical habitats" (line 16) most likely in order to
(A) illustrate the misuse of scientific language and concepts in political processes
(B) emphasize the importance of selecting precise language in transforming scientific concepts into law
(C) represent terminology whose definition was crucial in writing environmentalist goals into law
(D) demonstrate the triviality of the issues debated by industries before Congress passed the Endangered Species Act
(E) show that broad definitions of key terms in many types of laws resulted in ambiguity and thus left room for disagreement about how the law should be enforced

From the 1900's through the 1950's waitresses in
the United States developed a form of unionism based
on the unions' defending the skills that their occupation
line included and enforcing standards for the performance
(5) of those skills. This "occupational unionism" differed
substantially from the "worksite unionism" prevalent
among factory workers. Rather than unionizing the
workforces of particular employers, waitress locals
sought to control their occupation throughout a city.
(10) Occupational unionism operated through union hiring
halls, which provided free placement services to
employers who agreed to hire their personnel only
through the union. Hiring halls offered union wait-
resses collective employment security, not individual
(15) job security-a basic protection offered by worksite
unions. That is, when a waitress lost her job, the local
did not intervene with her employer but placed her
elsewhere; and when jobs were scarce, the work hours
available were distributed fairly among all members
rather than being assigned according to seniority.

48. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) analyze a current trend in relation to the past
(B) discuss a particular solution to a long-standing problem
(C) analyze changes in the way that certain standards have been enforced
(D) apply a generalization to an unusual situation
(E) describe an approach by contrasting it with another approach

49. Which of the following statements best summarizes a distinction mentioned in the passage between waitress unions and factory, workers' unions?
(A) Waitress unions were more successful than factory workers' unions in that they were able to unionize whole cities.
(B) Waitress unions had an impact on only certain local areas, whereas the impact of factory workers' unions was national.
(C) Waitress union members held primarily, part-time positions, whereas factory workers' unions placed their members in full-time jobs.
(D) Waitress unions emphasized the occupation of workers, whereas factory workers' unions emphasized the worksite at which workers were employed.
(E) Waitress unions defined the skills of their trade, whereas the skills of factory trades were determined by employers' groups.

50. According to the passage, which of the following was characteristic of the form of union that United States waitresses developed in the first half of the twentieth century?
(A) The union represented a wide variety of restaurant and hotel service occupations.
(B) The union defined the skills required of waitresses and disciplined its members to meet certain standards.
(C) The union billed employers for its members' work and distributed the earnings among all members.
(D) The union negotiated the enforcement of occupational standards with each employer whose workforce joined the union.
(E) The union ensured that a worker could not be laid off arbitrarily by an employer.

51. The author of the passage mentions "particular employers' (line 8) primarily in order to
(A) suggest that occupational unions found some employers difficult to satisfy
(B) indicate that the occupational unions served some employers but not others
(C) emphasize the unique focus of occupational unionism
(D) accentuate the hostility of some employers toward occupational unionism
(E) point out a weakness of worksite unionism

In prehistoric times brachiopods were one of the
most abundant and diverse forms of life on Earth:
more than 30,000 species of this clamlike creature
line have been cataloged from fossil records. Today
(5) brachiopods are not as numerous, and existing
species are not well studied, partly because neither
the animal's fleshy inner tissue nor its shell has any
commercial value. Moreover, in contrast to the
greater diversity of the extinct species, the approxi-
(10) mately 300 known surviving species are relatively,
uniform in appearance. Many zoologists have
interpreted this as a sign that the animal has been
unable to compete successfully with other marine
organisms in the evolutionary struggle.
(15) Several things, however, suggest that the conven-
tional view needs revising. For example, the genus
Lingula has an unbroken fossil record extending over
more than half a billion years to the present. Thus, if
longevity is any measure, brachiopods are the most
(20) successful organisms extant. Further, recent studies
suggest that diversity among species is a less impor-
tant measure of evolutionary success than is the
ability to withstand environmental change, such as
when a layer of clay replaces sand on the ocean
(25) bottom. The relatively greater uniformity among the
existing brachiopod species may offer greater protec-
tion from environmental change and hence may
reflect highly successful adaptive behavior.
The adaptive advantages of uniformity for brachio-
(30) pods can be seen by considering specialization, a
process that occurs as a result of prolonged coloniza-
tion of a uniform substrate. Those that can survive on
many surfaces are called generalists, while those that
can survive on a limited range of substrates are called
(35) specialists. One specialist species, for example, has
valves weighted at the base, a characteristic that
assures that the organism is properly positioned for
feeding in mud and similar substrates; other species
secrete glue allowing them to survive on the face of
(40) underwater cliffs. The fossil record demonstrates that
most brachiopod lineages have followed a trend
toward increased specialization. However, during
periods of environmental instability, when a partic-
ula substrate to which a specialist species has
(45) adapted is no longer available, the species quickly
dies out. Generalists, on the other hand are not
dependent on a particular substrate. and are thus less
vulnerable to environmental change. One study of the
fossil record revealed a mass extinction of brachiopods
(50) following a change in sedimentation from chalk to
clay. Of the 35 brachiopod species found in the chalk,
only 6 survived in the clay, all of them generalists.
As long as enough generalist species are main-
tained, and studies of arctic and subarctic seas
(55) suggest that generalists are often dominant members
of the marine communities there, it seems unlikely
that the phylum is close to extinction.

52. In the passage, the author is primarily concerned with
(A) rejecting an earlier explanation for the longevity of certain brachiopod species
(B) reevaluating the implications of uniformity among existing brachiopod species
(C) describing the varieties of environmental change to which brachiopods are vulnerable
(D) reconciling opposing explanations for brachiopods' lack of evolutionary success
(E) elaborating the mechanisms responsible for the tendency among brachiopod species toward specialization

53. The second paragraph makes use of which of the following?
(A) Specific examples
(B) Analogy
(C) Metaphor
(D) Quotation
(E) Exaggeration

54. The author suggests that the scientists holding the conventional view mentioned in lines 15-16 make which of the following errors?
(A) They mistakenly emphasize survival rather than diversity.
(B) They misunderstand the causes of specialization.
(C) They misuse zoological terminology.
(D) They catalog fossilized remains improperly.
(E) They overlook an alternative criterion of evolutionary success.

55. It can be inferred from the passage that the decision to study an organism may sometimes be influenced by
(A) its practical or commercial benefits to society
(B) the nature and prevalence of its fossilized remains
(C) the relative convenience of its geographical distribution
(D) its similarity to one or more better-known species
(E) the degree of its physiological complexity

56. Which of the following, if true, would most strengthen the author's claim (lines 56-57) that "it seems unlikely that the phylum is close to extinction"?
(A) Generalist species now living in arctic waten give few if any indications of a tendency towards significant future specialization.
(B) Zoologists have recently discovered that a common marine organism is a natural predator of brachiopods.
(C) It was recently discovered that certain brachiopod species are almost always concentrated near areas rich in offshore oil deposits.
(D) The ratio of specialist to Generalist species is slowly but steadily increasing.
(E) It is easier for a brachiopod to survive a change in sedimentation than a change in water temperature.

57. Information in the passage supports which of the following statements about brachiopods?
?. Few brachiopods living in prehistoric times were specialists.
?. A tendency toward specialization, though typical, is not inevitable.
?. Specialist species dominate in all but arctic and subarctic waters.
(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) II and III only
(D) I and III only
(E) I, II and III

Since some of the questions require you to distinguish
Fine shades of meaning, be sure to consider all the
choices before deciding which one is best.


Eight times within the pat million years, some-
thing in the Earth's climatic equation has changed.
allowing snow in the mountains and the northern
Line latitudes to accumulate from one season to the next
(5) instead of melting away. Each time, the enormous ice
sheets resulting from this continual buildup lasted tens
of thousands of years until the end of each particular
glacial cycle brought a warmer climate. Scientists
speculated that these glacial cycles were ultimately
(10) driven by astronomical factors: slow, cyclic changes
in the eccentricity of the Earth's orbit and in the tilt
and orientation of its spin axis. But up until around
30 years ago, the lack of an independent record of ice-
age timing made the hypothesis untestable.
(15) Then in the early 1950's Emiliani produced the
first complete record of the waxings and wanings
of past glaciations. It came from a seemingly odd
place. the seafloor. Single-cell marine organisms
called "foraminifera" house themselves in shells made
(20) from calcium carbonate. When the foraminifera die.
sink to the bottom, and become part of seafloor sedi-
ments, the carbonate of their shells preserves certain
characteristics of the seawater they inhabited. In
particular, the ratio of a heavy, isotope of oxygen
(25) (oxygen-18) to ordinary oxygen (oxygen- 16) in the
carbonate preserves the ratio of the two oxygens in
water molecules.
It is now understood that the ratio of oxygen iso-
topes in seawater closely reflects the proportion of
(30) the world's water locked up in glaciers and ice sheets.
A kind of meteorological distillation accounts for the
link. Water molecules containing the heavier isotope
tend to condense and fall as precipitation slightly sooner than molecules containing the lighter isotope.
(35) Hence, as water vapor evaporated from warm oceans
moves away from its source. its oxygen -18 returns
more quickly to the oceans than does its oxygen-16.
What falls as snow on distant ice sheets and mountain
glaciers is relatively depleted of oxygen -18. As the
(40) oxygen-18-poor ice builds up the oceans become
relatively enriched in the Isotope. The larger the ice
sheets grow, the higher the proportion of oxygen-18
becomes in seawater- and hence in the sediments.
Analyzing cores drilled from seafloor sediments,
(45) Emiliani found that the isotopic ratio rose and fell in
rough accord with the Earth's astronomical cycles.
Since that pioneering observation, oxygen-isotope
measurements have been made on hundreds of cores
A chronology for the combined record enables scien-
(50) tists to show that the record contains the very same
periodicities as the orbital processes. Over the past
800,000 years, the global ice volume has peaked
every 100,000 years, matching the period of the
orbital eccentricity variation. In addition, "wrinkles"
(55) superposed on each cycle -small decreases or surges
in ice volume - have come at intervals of roughly
23,000 and 41,000 years, in keeping with the pre-
cession and tilt frequencies of the Earth's spin axis.
58. It can be inferred from the passage that which of the following is true of the water locked in glaciers and ice sheets today?
(A) It is richer in oxygen- 18 than frozen water was during past glacial periods.
(B) It is primarily located in the northern latitudes of the Earth.
(C) Its ratio of oxygen isotopes is the same as that prevalent in seawater during the last ice age.
(D) It is steadily decreasing in amount due to increased thawing during summer months.
(E) In comparison with seawater, it is relatively
poor in oxygen-18.


59. The discussion of the oxygen-isotope ratios in paragraph three of the passage suggests that which of the following must be assumed if the conclusions described in lines 49-58 are to be validly drawn?
(A) The Earth's overall annual precipitation rates do not dramatically increase or decrease over time.
(B) The various chemicals dissolved in seawater have had the same concentrations over the past million years.
(C) Natural processes unrelated to ice formation do not result in the formation of large quantities of oxygen- 18.
(D) Water molecules falling as precipitation usually fall on the open ocean rather than on continents or polar ice packs.
(E) Increases in global temperature do not increase the amount of water that evaporates from the oceans.

60. The passage suggests that the scientists who first constructed a coherent. continuous picture of past variations in marine-sediment isotope ratios did which of the following?
(A) Relied primarily on the data obtained from the analysis of Emiliani's core samples.
(B) Combined data derived from the analysis of many different core samples.
(C) Matched the data obtained by geologists with that provided by astronomers.
(D) Evaluated the isotope-ratio data obtained in several areas in order to eliminate all but the most reliable data.
(E) Compared data obtained from core samples in many different marine environments with data samples derived from polar ice caps.

Before Laura Gilpin (1891-1979), few women in
the history of photography had so devoted themselves
to chronicling the landscape. Other women had photo-
line graphed the land, but none can be regarded as a land-
(5) scape photographer with a sustained body of work
documenting the physical terrain. Anne Brigman
often photographed woodlands and coastal areas, but
They were generally settings for her artfully placed
subjects. Dorothea Lange's landscapes were always
(10) conceived of as counterparts to her portraits of rural
women.
At the same time that Gilpin's interest in landscape
work distinguished her from most other women pho-
tographers, her approach to landscape photography set
(15) her apart from men photographers who, like Gilpin,
documented the western United States. Western
American landscape photography grew out of a male
tradition, pioneered by photographers attached to
government and commercial survey teams that went
(20) west in the 1860's and 1870's. These explorer-
photographers documented the West that their
employers wanted to see: an exotic and majestic land
shaped by awesome natural forces, unpopulated and
ready for American settlement. The next generation
(25) of male photographers, represented by Ansel Adams
and Eliot Porter, often worked with conservationist
groups rather than government agencies or commer-
cial companies, but they nonetheless preserved the
"heroic" style and maintained the role of respectful
(30) outsider peering in with reverence at a fragile natural
world.
For Gilpin, by contrast, the landscape was neither
an empty vista awaiting human settlement nor a
jewel-like scene resisting human intrusion, but a
(35) peopled landscape with a rich history and tradition of
its own, an environment that shaped and molded the
lives of its inhabitants. Her photographs of the Rio
Grande, for example, consistently depict the river in
terms of its significance to human culture: as a source
(40) of irrigation water, a source of food for livestock, and
a provider of town sites. Also instructive is Gilpin's
general avoidance of extreme close-ups of her natural
subjects: for her, emblematic details could never
suggest the intricacies of the interrelationship between
(45) people and nature that made the landscape a compel-
ling subject. While it is dangerous to draw conclusions
about a"feminine" way of seeing from the work of
one woman, it can nonetheless be argued that Gilpin's
unique approach to landscape photography was anal-
(50) ogous to the work of many women writers who, far
more than their male counterparts, described the land-
scape in terms of its potential to sustain human life.
Gilpin never spoke of herself as a photographer
with a feminine perspective: she eschewed any
(55) discussion of gender as it related to her work and
maintained little interest in interpretations that relied
on the concept of a "woman's eye." Thus it is ironic
that her photographic evocation of a historical
landscape should so clearly present a distinctively
feminine approach to landscape photography.

61. Which of the following best expresses the main idea of the passage?
(A) Gilpin's landscape photographs more accurately documented the Southwest than did the photographs of explorers and conservationists.
(B) Gilpin's style of landscape photography substantially influenced the heroic style practiced by her male counterparts.
(C) The labeling of Gilpin's style of landscape photography as feminine ignores important ties between it and the heroic style.
(D) Gilpin's work exemplifies an arguably feminine style of landscape photography that contrasts with the style used by her male predecessors.
(E) Gilpin's style was strongly influenced by the work of women writers who described the landscape in terms of its relationship to people.

62. It can be inferred from the passage that the teams mentioned in line 19 were most interested in which of the following aspects of the land in the western United States?
(A) Its fragility in the face of increased human intrusion
(B) Its role in shaping the lives of indigenous peoples
(C) Its potential for sustaining future settlements
(D) Its importance as an environment for RARE PLANTS AND ANIMALS
(E) Its unusual vulnerability to extreme natural forces

63.The passage suggests that a photographer who practiced the heroic style would be most likely to emphasize which of the following in a photographic series focusing on the Rio Grande ?
(A) Indigenous people and their ancient customs relating to the river
(B) The exploits of navigators and explorers
(C) Unpopulated, pristine parts of the river and its surroundings
(D) Existing commercial ventures that relied heavily on the river
(E) The dams and other monumental engineering structures built on the river

64. Based on the description of her works in the passage, which of the following would most likely be a subject for a photograph taken by Gilpin?
(A) A vista of a canyon still untouched by human culture
(B) A portrait of a visitor to the West against a desert backdrop
(C) A view of historic Native American dwellings carved into the side of a natural cliff
(D) A picture of artifacts from the West being transported to the eastern United States for retail sale
(E) An abstract pattern created by the shadows of clouds on the desert

keys:
(1-30)CBEEE CDDED DABCE CEECD CCEDA ECCCA
(31-60)EBECB EBCBA EAECA BCEDB CBAEA ABECB
(61-64)DCCC
E?EAE CDDBD DABAE CEECD ACE
DAECC CAEBE DBEDC BCEAE CABCE DBCB,AEAAB, ECB, DCCC






