Passage I
The molecules of carbon dioxide in the Earth's
atmosphere affect the heat balance of the Earth by
acting as a one-way screen. Although these molecules
allow radiation at visible wavelengths, where most of
the energy of sunlight is concentrated, to pass
through, they absorb some of the longer-wavelength,
infrared emissions radiated from the Earth's surface,
radiation that would otherwise be transmitted back
into space. For the Earth to maintain a constant aver-
age temperature, such emissions from the planet must
balance incoming solar radiation. If there were no
car-bon dioxide in the atmosphere, heat would escape
from the Earth much more easily. The surface temper-
ature would be so much lower that the oceans might
be a solid mass of ice.
Today, however, the potential problem is too much
carbon dioxide. The burning of fossil fuels and the
clearing of forests have increased atmospheric carbon
dioxide by about 15 percent in the last hundred years,
and we continue to add carbon dioxide to the atmo-
sphere. Could the increase in carbon dioxide cause a
global rise in average temperature, and could such a
rise have serious consequences for human society?
Mathematical models that allow us to calculate the
rise in temperature as a function of the increase
indicate that the answer is probably yes.
Under present conditions a temperature-of--18?
can be observed at an altitude of 5 to 6 kilometers
above the Earth. Below this altitude (called the
radiating level), the temperature increases by about
6? per kilometer approaching the Earth's surface,
where the average temperature is about 15?. An
increase in the amount of carbon dioxide means that
there are more molecules of carbon dioxide to absorb
infrared radiation. As the capacity of the atmosphere
to absorb infrared radiation increases, the radiating
level and the temperature of the surface must rise.
One mathematical model predicts that doubling the
atmospheric carbon dioxide would raise the global
mean surface temperature by 2.5?. This model
assumes that the atmosphere's relative humidity
remains constant and the temperature decreases with
altitude at a rate of 6.5? per kilometer. The assump-
tion of constant relative humidity is important,
because water vapor in the atmosphere is another effi-
cient absorber of radiation at infrared wavelengths.
Because warm air can hold more moisture than cool
air, the relative humidity will be constant only if the
amount of water vapor in the atmosphere increases as
the temperature rises. Therefore, more infrared radia-
tion would be absorbed and reradiated back to the
Earth's surface. The resultant warming at the surface
could be expected to melt snow and ice, reducing the
Earth's reflectivity. More solar radiation would then
be absorbed, leading to a further increase in tem-
perature.

17. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) warn of the dangers of continued burning of
fossil fuels
(B) discuss the significance of increasing the
amount of carbon dioxide in the
atmosphere
(C) explain how a constant temperature is
maintained on the Earth's surface
(D) describe the ways in which various
atmospheric and climatic conditions
contribute to the Earth's weather
(E) demonstrate the usefulness of mathematical
models in predicting long-range climatic
change

18. According to the passage, the greatest part of
the solar energy that reaches the Earth is
(A) concentrated in the infrared spectrum
(B) concentrated at visible wavelengths
(C) absorbed by carbon dioxide molecules
(D) absorbed by atmospheric water vapor
(E) reflected back to space by snow and ice

19. According to the passage, atmospheric carbon
dioxide performs all of the following functions
EXCEPT
(A) absorbing radiation at visible wavelengths
(B) absorbing infrared radiation
(C) absorbing outgoing radiation from the
Earth
(D) helping to retain heat near the Earth's
surface
(E) helping to maintain a constant average
temperature on the Earth's surface

20. Which of the following best describes the
author's attitude toward the increasing amount
of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and its
consequences?
(A) Incredulous
(B) Completely detached
(C) Interested but skeptical
(D) Angry yet resigned
(E) Objective yet concerned

21. It can be concluded from information contained
in the passage that the average temperature at an
altitude of 1 kilometer above the Earth is about
(A) 15? (B) 9? (C) 2.5?
(D) -12? (E) -18?

22. It can be inferred from the passage that the
construction of the mathematical model
mentioned in the passage involved the
formulation of which of the following?
(A) An assumption that the amount of carbon
dioxide added to the atmosphere would
in reality steadily increase
(B) An assumption that human activities are the
only agencies by which carbon dioxide is
added to the atmosphere
(C) Assumptions about the social and political
consequences of any curtailment of the
use of fossil fuels
(D) Assumptions about the physical conditions
that are likely to prevail during the period
for which the model was made
(E) Assumptions about the differential behavior
of carbon dioxide molecules at the
various levels of temperature calculated
in the model

23. According to the passage, which of the
following is true of the last hundred years?
(A) Fossil fuels were burned for the first time.
(B) Greater amounts of land were cleared than
at any time before.
(C) The average temperature at the Earth's
surface has become 2? cooler.
(D) The amount of carbon dioxide in the
atmosphere has increased measurably.
(E) The amount of farmland worldwide has
doubled.


Passage II
whether the languages of the ancient American
peoples were used for expressing abstract universal
concepts can be clearly answered in the case of
Nahuatl. Nahuatl, like Greek and German, is a lan-
guage that allows the formation of extensive com-
pounds. By the combination of radicals or semantic
elements, single compound words can express com-
plex conceptual relations, often of an abstract uni-
versal character.
The tlamatinime ("those who know") were able to
use this rich stock of abstract terms to express the
nuances of their thought. They also availed themselves
of other forms of expression with metaphorical mean-
ing, some probably original, some derived from Toltec
coinages. Of these forms the most characteristic in
Nahuatl is the juxtaposition of two words that,
because they are synonyms, associated terms, or even
contraries, complement each other to evoke one single
idea. Used as metaphor, the juxtaposed terms connote
specific or essential traits of the being they refer to,
introducing a mode of poetry as an almost habitual
form of expression.

17. A main purpose of the passage is to
(A) delineate the function of the tlamatinime in
Nahuatl society
(B) explain the abstract philosophy of the
Nahuatl thinkers
(C) argue against a theory of poetic expression
by citing evidence about the Nahuatl
(D) explore the rich metaphorical heritage the
Nahuatl received from the Toltecs
(E) describe some conceptual and aesthetic
resources of the Nahuatl language

18. According to the passage, some abstract
universal ideas can be expressed in Hahuatl by
(A) taking away from a word any reference to
particular instances
(B) removing a word from its associations with
other words
(C) giving a word a new and opposite meaning
(D) putting various meaningful elements
together in one word
(E) turning each word of a phrase into a poetic
metaphor

19. It can be inferred solely from the information
in the passage that
(A) there are many languages that, like Greek
or German, allow extensive compounding
(B) all abstract universal ideas are ideas of
complex relations
(C) some record or evidence of the thought of
the tlamatinime exists
(D) metaphors are always used in Nahuatl to
express abstract conceptual relationships
(E) the abstract terms of the Nahuatl language
are habitually used in poetry


Key:
Passage I ABAAD ED
Passage II EDC


Many theories have been formulated to explain the
role of grazers such as zooplankton in controlling the
amount of planktonic algae (phytoplankton) in lakes.
The first theories of such grazer control were merely
based on observations of negative correlations
between algal and zooplankton numbers. A low num-
ber of algal cells in the presence of a high number of
grazers suggested, but did not prove, that the grazers
had removed most of the algae. The converse obser-
vation, of the absence of grazers in areas of high
phytoplankton concentration, led Hardy to propose
his principle of animal exclusion, which hypothe-
sized that phytoplankton produced a repellent that
excluded grazers from regions of high phytoplankton
concentration. This was the first suggestion of algal
defenses against grazing.
Perhaps the fact that many of these first studies
considered only algae of a size that could be collected
in a net (net phytoplankton), a practice that over-
looked the smaller phytoplankton (nannoplankton)
that we now know grazers are most likely to feed on,
led to a de-emphasis of the role of grazers in subse-
quent research. Increasingly, as in the individual
studies of Lund, Round, and Reynolds, researchers
began to stress the importance of environmental
factors such as temperature, light, and water move-
ments in controlling algal numbers. These environ-
mental factors were amenable to field monitoring and
to simulation in the laboratory. Grazing was believed
to have some effect on algal numbers, especially after
phytoplankton growth rates declined at the end of
bloom periods, but grazing was considered a minor
component of models that predicted algal population
dynamics.
The potential magnitude of grazing pressure on
freshwater phytoplankton has only recently been
determined empirically. Studies by Hargrave and
Geen estimated natural community grazing rates by
measuring feeding rates of individual zooplankton
species in the laboratory and then computing com-
munity grazing rates for field conditions using the
known population density of grazers. The high esti-
mates of grazing pressure postulated by these
researchers were not fully accepted, however, until the
grazing rates of zooplankton were determined directly
in the field, by means of new experimental techniques.
Using a specially prepared feeding chamber, Haney
was able to record zooplankton grazing rates in
natural field conditions. In the periods of peak
zooplankton abundance, that is, in the late spring and
in the summer, Haney recorded maximum daily com-
munity grazing rates, for nutrient-poor lakes and bog
lakes, respectively, of 6.6 percent and 114 percent of
daily phytoplankton production. Cladocerans had
higher grazing rates than copepods, usually account-
ing for 80 percent of the community grazing rate.
These rates varied seasonally, reaching the lowest
point in the winter and early spring. Haney's thorough
research provides convincing field evidence that
grazers can exert significant pressure on phyto-
plankton population.

20. The author most likely mentions Hardy's
principle of animal exclusion in order to
(A) give an example of one theory about the
interaction of grazers and phytoplankton
(B) defend the first theory of algal defenses
against grazing
(C) support the contention that phytoplankton
numbers are controlled primarily by
environmental factors
(D) demonstrate the superiority of laboratory
studies of zooplankton feeding rates to other
kinds of studies of such rates
(E) refute researchers who believed that low
numbers of phytoplankton indicated the
grazing effect of low numbers of
zooplankton

21. It can be inferred from the passage that the
"first theories" of grazer control mentioned in
line 4 would have been more convincing if
researchers had been able to
(A) observe high phytoplankton numbers under
natural lake conditions
(B) discover negative correlations between
algae and zooplankton numbers from their
field research
(C) understand the central importance of
environmental factors in controlling the
growth rates of phytoplankton
(D) make verifiable correlations of cause and
effect between zooplankton and
phytoplankton numbers
(E) invent laboratory techniques that would
have allowed them to bypass their field
research concerning grazer control

22. Which of the following, if true, would call into
question Hardy's principle of animal
exclusion?
(A) Zooplankton are not the only organisms
that are affected by phytoplankton
repellents.
(B) Zooplankton exclusion is unrelated to
phytoplankton population density.
(C) Zooplankton population density is higher
during some parts of the year than during
others.
(D) Net phytoplankton are more likely to
exclude zooplankton than are
nannoplankton.
(E) Phytoplankton numbers can be strongly
affected by environmetnal factors.

23. The author would be likely to agree with
which of the following statements regarding
the pressure of grazers on phytoplankton
numbers?
I. Grazing pressure can vary according to
the individual type of zooplankton.
II. Grazing pressure can be lower in nutrient-
poor lakes than in bog lakes.
III. Grazing tends to exert about the same
pressure as does temperature.
(A) I only (B) III only (C) I and II only
(D) II and III only (E) I, II, and III

24. The passage supplies information to indicate
that Hargrave and Geen's conclusion regarding
the grazing pressure exerted by zooplankton on
phytoplankton numbers was most similar to the
conclusion regarding grazing pressure reached
by which of the following researchers?
(A) Hardy (B) Lund (C) Round
(D) Reynolds (E) Haney

25. It can be inferred from the passage that one way
in which many of the early researchers on grazer
control could have improved their data would
have been to
(A) emphasize the effects of temperature, rather
than of light, on phytoplankton
(B) disregard nannoplankton in their analysis of
phytoplankton numbers
(C) collect phytoplankton of all sizes before
analyzing the extent of phytoplankton
concentration
(D) recognize that phytoplankton other than net
phytoplankton could be collected in a net
(E) understand the crucial significance of net
phytoplankton in the diet of zooplankton

26. According to the passage, Hargrave and Geen
did which of the following in their experiments?
(A) They compared the grazing rates of
individual zooplankton species in the
laboratory with the natural grazing rates
of these species.
(B) The hypothesized about the population
density of grazers in natural habitats by
using data concerning the population
density of grazers in the laboratory.
(C) They estimated the community grazing rates
of zooplankton in the laboratory by using
data concerning the natural community
grazing rates of zooplankton.
(D) They estimated the natural community
grazing rates of zooplankton by using
data concerning the known population
density of phytoplankton.
(E) They estimated the natural community
grazing rates of zooplankton by using
laboratory data concerning the grazing
rates of individual zooplankton species.

27. Which of the following is a true statement about
the zooplankton numbers and zooplankton
grazing rates observed in Haney's experiments?
(A) While zooplankton numbers began to
decline in August, zooplankton grazing
rates began to increase.
(B) Although zooplankton numbers were high
in May, grazing rates did not become
high until January.
(C) Both zooplankton numbers and grazing
rates were higher in December than in
November.
(D) Both zooplankton numbers and grazing
rates were lower in March than in June.
(E) Both zooplankton numbers and grazing
rates were highest in February.

Key: ADBCE CED



   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?3??

Passage 1
hydrogeology is a science dealing with the
properties, distribution, and circulation of water
on the surface of the land, in the soil and under-
lying rocks, and in the atmosphere. The hydro-
(5) logic cycle, a major topic in this science, is the
complete cycle of phenomena through which
water passes, beginning as atmospheric water
vapor, passing into liquid and solid form as pre-
cipitation, thence along and into the ground
(10) surface, and finally again returning to the form
of atmospheric water vapor by means of evap-
oration and transpiration.
The term "geohydrology" is sometimes
erroneously used as a synonym for "hydro-
(15) geology." Geohydrology is concerned with
underground water. There are many formations
that contain water but are not part of the hydro-
logic cycle because of geologic changes that have
isolated them underground. These systems are
(20) properly termed geohydrologic but not hydro-
geologic. Only when a system possesses natural
or artificial boundaries that associate the water
within it with the hydrologic cycle may the entire
system properly be termed hydrogeologic.

17. The author's primary purpose is most
probably to
(A) present a hypothesis
(B) refute an argument
(C) correct a misconception
(D) predict an occurrence
(E) describe an enigma

18. It can be inferred that which of the following
is most likely to be the subject of study by a
geohydrologist?
(A) Soft, porous rock being worn away by a
waterfall
(B) Water depositing minerals on the banks of a
gorge through which the water runs
(C) The trapping of water in a sealed
underground rock cavern through the action
of an earthquake
(D) Water becoming unfit to drink through the
release of pollutants into it from a
manufacturing plant
(E) The changing course of a river channel as
the action of the water wears away the rocks
past which the river flows

19. The author refers to "many formations" (line 16)
primarily in order to
(A) clarify a distinction
(B) introduce a subject
(C) draw an analogy
(D) emphasize a similarity
(E) resolve a conflict

passage 2
The use of heat pumps has been held back
largely by skepticism about advertisers' claims that
heat pumps can provide as many as two units of
thermal energy for each unit of electrical energy
(5) used, thus apparently contradicting the principle of
energy conservation.
Heat pumps circulate a fluid refrigerant that
cycles alternatively from its liquid phase to its
vapor phase in a closed loop. The refrigerant,
(10) starting as a low-temperature, low-pressure vapor,
enters a compressor driven by an electric motor.
The refrigerant leaves the compressor as a hot,
dense vapor and flows through a heat exchanger
called the condenser, which transfers heat from the
(15) refrigerant to a body of air. Now the refrigerant,
as a high-pressure, cooled liquid, confronts a flow
restriction which causes the pressure to drop. As
the pressure falls, the refrigerant expands and par-
tially vaporizes, becoming chilled. It then passes
(20) through a second heat exchanger, the evaporator,
which transfers heat from the air to the refrigerant,
reducing the temperature of this second body of
air. Of the two heat exchangers, one is located
inside, and the other one outside the house, so
(25) each is in contact with a different body of air:
room air and outside air, respectively.
The flow direction of refrigerant through a heat
pump is controlled by valves. When the refrigerant
flow is reversed, the heat exchangers switch func-
(30) tion. This flow-reversal capability allows heat
pumps either to heat or cool room air.
Now, if under certain conditions a heat pump
puts out more thermal energy than it consumes in
electrical energy, has the law of energy conserva-
(35) tion been challenged? No, not even remotely: the
additional input of thermal energy into the circu-
lating refrigerant via the evaporator accounts for
the difference in the energy equation.
Unfortunately, there is one real problem. The
(40) heating capacity of a heat pump decreases as the
outdoor temperature falls. The drop in capacity is
caused by the lessening amount of refrigerant mass
moved through the compressor at one time. The
heating capacity is proportional to this mass flow
(45) rate: the less the mass of refrigerant being com-
pressed, the less the thermal load it can transfer
through the heat-pump cycle. The volume flow
rate of refrigerant vapor through the single-speed
rotary compressor used in heat pumps is approxi-
(50) mately constant. But cold refrigerant vapor enter-
ing a compressor is at lower pressure than warmer
vapor. Therefore, the mass of cold refrigerant-
and thus the thermal energy it carries-is less than
if the refrigerant vapor were warmer before com-
(55) pression.
Here, then, lies a genuine drawback of heat
pumps: in extremely cold climates-where the
most heat is needed-heat pumps are least able to
supply enough heat.

17. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) explain the differences in the working of a heat
pump when the outdoor temperature
changes
(B) contrast the heating and the cooling modes of heat
pumps
(C) describe heat pumps, their use, and factors
affecting their use
(D) advocate the more widespread use of heat
pumps
(E) expose extravagant claims about heat pumps
as false

18. The author resolves the question of whether heat
pumps run counter to the principle of energy con-
servation by
(A) carefully qualifying the meaning of that prin-
ciple
(B) pointing out a factual error in the statement
that gives rise to this question
(C) supplying additional relevant facts
(D) denying the relevance of that principle to heat
pumps
(E) explaining that heat pumps can cool, as well as
heat, room air

19. It can be inferred from the passage that, in the
course of a heating season, the heating capacity of a
heat pump is greatest when
(A) heating is least essential
(B) electricity rates are lowest
(C) its compressor runs the fastest
(D) outdoor temperatures hold steady
(E) the heating demand surges

20. If the author's assessment of the use of heat pumps
(lines 1-6) is correct, which of the following best
expresses the lesson that advertisers should learn
from this case?
(A) Do not make exaggerated claims about the
products you are trying to promote.
(B) Focus your advertising campaign on vague
analogies and veiled implications instead of
on facts.
(C) Do not use facts in your advertising that will
strain the prospective client's ability to
believe.
(D) Do not assume in your advertising that the
prospective clients know even the most ele-
mentary scientific principles.
(E) Concentrate your advertising firmly on finan-
cially relevant issues such as price discounts
and efficiency of operation.

21. The passage suggests that heat pumps would
be used more widely if
(A) they could also be used as air conditioners
(B) they could be moved around to supply heat
where it is most needed
(C) their heat output could be thermostatically con-
trolled
(D) models with truly superior cooling capacity
were advertised more effectively
(E) people appreciated the role of the evaporator in
the energy equation

22. According to the passage, the role of the flow
restriction (lines 16-17) in a heat pump is to
(A) measure accurately the flow rate of the refriger-
ant mass at that point
(B) compress and heat the refrigerant vapor
(C) bring about the evaporation and cooling of
refrigerant
(D) exchange heat between the refrigerant and the
air at that point
(E) reverse the direction of refrigerant flow when
needed

23. The author regards the notion that heat pumps have
a genuine drawback as a
(A) cause for regret
(B) sign of premature defeatism
(C) welcome challenge
(D) case of sloppy thinking
(E) focus for an educational campaign

passage 3
All of Francoise Dupare's surviving paintings blend
portraiture and genre. Her subjects appear to be acquain-
tances whom she has asked to pose; she has captured
both their self-consciousness and the spontaneity of their
everyday activities, the depiction of which characterizes
genre painting. But genre painting, especially when it
portrayed members of the humblest classes, was never
popular in eighteenth-century France. The Le Nain
brothers and Georges de La Tour, who also chose such
themes, were largely ignored. Their present high standing
is due to a different, more democratic political climate
and to different aesthetic values: we no longer require
artists to provide ideal images of humanity for our moral
edification but rather regard such idealization as a falsifi-
cation of the truth. Duparc gives no improving message
and discreetly refrains from judging her subjects. In brief,
her works neither elevate nor instruct. This restraint
largely explains her lack of popular success during her
lifetime, even if her talent did not go completely unrecog-
nized by her eighteenth-century French contemporaries.

24. According to the passage, modern viewers are not
likely to value which of the following qualities in a
painting?
(A) The technical elements of the painting
(B) The spontaneity of the painting
(C) The moral lesson imparted by the painting
(D) The degree to which the painting realistically
depicts its subject
(E) The degree to which the artist's personality is
revealed in the painting

25. If the history of Duparc's artistic reputation were
to follow that of the Le Nain brothers and Georges
de La Tour, present-day assessments of her work
would be likely to contain which of the following?
(A) An evaluation that accords high status to her
work
(B) Acknowledgement of her technical expertise
but dismissal of her subject matter as trivial
(C) Agreement with assessments made in her own
time but acknowledgements of the excep-
tional quality of a few of her paintings
(D) Placement of her among the foremost artists of
her century
(E) A reclassification of her work as portraiture
rather than genre painting

26. It can be inferred from the passage that the term
"genre painting" would most likely apply to which
of the following?
(A) A painting depicting a glorious moment of vic-
tory following a battle
(B) A painting illustrating a narrative from the
Bible
(C) A portrayal of a mythological Greek goddess
(D) A portrayal of a servant engaged in his work
(E) A formal portrait of an eighteenth-century
king

27. The argument of the passage best supports which of
the following contentions concerning judgements of
artistic work?
(A) Aesthetic judgments can be influenced by the
political beliefs of those making the judgement.
(B) Judgments of the value of an artist's work
made by his or her contemporaries must be
discounted before a true judgment can be
made.
(C) Modern aesthetic taste is once again moving in
the direction of regarding idealistic painting
as the most desirable form of painting.
(D) In order to be highly regarded, an artist cannot
be solely identified with one particular kind
of painting.
(E) Spontaneity is the most valuable quality a por-
trait painter can have.


Key:
Passage 1: CCA
Passage 2: CCACE CA
Passage 3: CADA


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?4??

Passage 1
The historian Frederick J. Turner wrote in
the 1890's that the agrarian discontent that had
been developing steadily in the United States
since about 1870 had been precipitated by the
(5) closing of the internal frontier--that is, the
depletion of available new land needed for
further expansion of the American farming
system. Not only was Turner's thesis influential
at the time, it was later adopted and elaborated
(10) by other scholars, such as John D. Hicks in The
Populist Revolt (1931). Actually, however, new
lands were taken up for farming in the United
States throughout and beyond the nineteenth
century. In the 1890's, when agrarian discontent
(15) had become most acute, 1,100,000 new farms
were settled, which was 500,000 more than had
been settled during the previous decade. After
1890, under the terms of the Homestead Act and
its successors, more new land was taken up for
(20) farming than had been taken up for this purpose
in the United States up until that time. It is true
that a high proportion of the newly farmed land
was suitable only for grazing and dry farming,
but agricultural practices had become suffi-
(25) ciently advanced to make it possible to increase
the profitability of farming by utilizing even
these relatively barren lands.
The emphasis given by both scholars and
statesmen to the presumed disappearance of the
(30) American frontier helped to obscure the great
importance of changes in the conditions and
consequences of international trade that oc-
curred during the second half of the nineteenth
century. In 1869 the Suez Canal was opened and
(35) the first transcontinental railroad in the United
States was completed. An extensive network of
telegraph and telephone communications was
spun: Europe was connected by submarine
cable with the United States in 1866 and with
(40) South America in 1874. By about 1870 improve-
ments in agricultural technology made possible
the full exploitation of areas that were most
suitable for extensive farming on a mechanized
basis. Huge tracts of land were being settled and
(45) farmed in Argentina, Australia, Canada, and in
the American West, and these areas were joined
with one another and with the countries of
Europe into an interdependent market system.
As a consequence, agrarian depressions no
(50) longer were local or national in scope, and they
struck several nations whose internal frontiers
had not vanished or were not about to vanish.
Between the early 1870's and the 1890's, the
mounting agrarian discontent in America paral-
(55) leled the almost uninterrupted decline in the
prices of American agricultural products on
foreign markets. Those staple-growing farmers
in the United States who exhibited the greatest
discontent were those who had become most
(60) dependent on foreign markets for the sale of
their products. Insofar as Americans had been
deterred from taking up new land for farming, it
was because market conditions had made this
period a perilous time in which to do so.

20. The author is primarily concerned with
(A) showing that a certain interpretation is better supported by the evidence than is an alternative explanation
(B) developing an alternative interpretation by using sources of evidence that formerly had been unavailable
(C) questioning the accuracy of the evidence that most scholars have used to counter the author's own interpretation
(D) reviewing the evidence that formerly had been thought to obscure a valid interpretation
(E) presenting evidence in support of a controversial version of an earlier interpretation.

21. According to the author, changes in the conditions of international trade resulted in an
(A) underestimation of the amount of new land that was being famed in the United States
(B) underutilization of relatively small but rich plots of land
(C) overexpansion of the world transportation network for shipping agricultural products
(D) extension of agrarian depressions beyond national boundaries
(E) emphasis on the importance of market forces in determining the prices of agricultural products

22. The author implies that the change in the state of the American farmer's morale during the latter part of the nineteenth century was traceable to the American farmer's increasing perception that the
(A) costs of cultivating the land were prohibitive within the United States
(B) development of the first transcontinental railroad in the United States occurred at the expense of the American farmer
(C) American farming system was about to run out of the new farmland that was required for its expansion.
(D) prices of American agricultural products were deteriorating especially rapidly on domestic markets
(E) proceeds from the sales of American agricultural products on foreign markets were unsatisfactory

23. According to the passage, which of the following occurred prior to 1890?
(A) Frederick J. Turner's thesis regarding the American frontier became influential.
(B) The Homestead Act led to an increase in the amount of newly farmed land in the United States.
(C) The manufacturers of technologically advanced agricultural machinery rapidly increased their marketing efforts.
(D) Direct lines of communication were constructed between the United States and South America.
(E) Technological advances made it fruitful to farm extensively on a mechanized basis.

24. The author implies that, after certain territories and countries had been joined into an interdependent market system in the nineteenth century, agrarian depressions within that system
(A) spread to several nations, excluding those in which the internal frontier remained open
(B) manifested themselves in several nations, including those in which new land remained available for farming
(C) slowed down the pace of new technological developments in international communications and transportation
(D) affected the local and national prices of the nonagricultural products of several nations
(E) encouraged several nations to sell more of their agricultural products on foreign markets

25. The author provides information concerning newly farmed lands in the United States (lines 11-27) as evidence in direct support of which of the following?
(A) A proposal by Frederick J. Turner that was later disputed by John D. Hicks
(B) An elaboration by John D. Hicks of a thesis that formerly had been questioned by Frederick J. Turner
(C) The established view that was disputed by those scholars who adopted the thesis of Frederick J. Turner
(D) The thesis that important changes occurred in the nature of international trade during the second half of the nineteenth century
(E) The view that the American frontier did not become closed during the nineteenth century or soon thereafter

26. The author implies that the cause of the agrarian discontent was
(A) masked by the vagueness of the official records on newly settled farms
(B) overshadowed by disputes on the reliability of the existing historical evidence
(C) misidentified as a result of influential but erroneous theorizing
(D) overlooked because of a preoccupation with market conditions
(E) undetected because visible indications of the cause occurred so gradually and sporadically

27. The author's argument implies that, compared to the yearly price changes that actually occurred on foreign agricultural markets during the 1880's, American farmers would have most preferred yearly price changes that were
(A) much smaller and in the same direction
(B) much smaller but in the opposite direction
(C) slightly smaller and in the same direction
(D) similar in size but in the opposite direction
(E) slightly greater and in the same direction

passage 2
Eight percent of the Earth's crust is aluminum, and
there are hundreds of aluminum-bearing minerals and
vast quantities of the rocks that contain them. The best
aluminum ore is bauxite, defined as aggregates of alumi-
nous minerals, more or less impure, in which aluminum
is present as hydrated oxides. Bauxite is the richest of all
those aluminous rocks that occur in large quantities, and
it yields alumina, the intermediate product required for
the production of aluminum. Alumina also occurs natu-
rally as the mineral corundum, but corundum is not
found in large deposits of high purity, and therefore it is
an impractical source for making aluminum. Most of the
many abundant nonbauxite aluminous minerals are sili-
cates, and, like all silicate minerals, they are refractory,
resistant to analysis, and extremely difficult to process.
The aluminum silicates are therefore generally unsuitable
alternatives to bauxite because considerably more energy
is required to extract alumina from them.

17. The author implies that a mineral must either be or readily supply which of the following in order to be classified as an aluminum ore?
(A) An aggregate
(B) Bauxite
(C) Alumina
(D) Corundum
(E) An aluminum silicate

18. The passage supplies information for answering all of the following questions regarding aluminous minerals EXCEPT:
(A) What percentage of the aluminum in the Earth's crust is in the form of bauxite?
(B) Are aluminum-bearing nonbauxite minerals plentiful?
(C) Do the aluminous minerals found in bauxite contain hydrated oxides?
(D) Are aluminous hydrated oxides found in rocks?
(E) Do large quantities of bauxite exist?

19. The author implies that corundum would be used to produce aluminum if
(A) corundum could be found that is not contaminated by silicates
(B) the production of alumina could be eliminated as an intermediate step in manufacturing aluminum
(C) many large deposits of very high quality corundum were to be discovered
(D) new technologies were to make it possible to convert corundum to a silicate
(E) manufacturers were to realize that the world's supply of bauxite is not unlimited


Key:
Passage 1: ADEEB ECD
Passage 2: CAC





   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?5??

Mycorrhizal fungi infect more plants than do any
other fungi and are necessary for many plants to thrive,
but they have escaped widespread investigation until
recently for two reasons. First, the symbiotic associa-
tion is so well-balanced that the roots of host plants
show no damage even when densely infected. Second,
the fungi cannot as yet be cultivated in the absence of a
living root. Despite these difficulties, there has been
important new work that suggests that this symbiotic
association can be harnessed to achieve more economi-
cal use of costly super phosphate fertilizer and to permit
better exploitation of cheaper, less soluble rock phos-
phate. Mycorrhizal benefits are not limited to improved
phosphate uptake in host plants. In legumes, mycor-
rhizal inoculation has increased nitrogen fixation
beyond levels achieved by adding phosphate fertilizer
alone. Certain symbiotic associations also increase the
host plant's resistance to harmful root fungi. Whether
this resistance results from exclusion of harmful fungi
through competition for sites, from metabolic change
involving antibiotic production, or from increased vigor
is undetermined.

17. Which of the following most accurately describes the passage?
(A) A description of a replicable experiment
(B) A summary report of new findings
(C) A recommendation for abandoning a difficult area of research
(D) A refutation of an earlier hypothesis
(E) A confirmation of earlier research

18. The level of information in the passage above is suited to the needs of all of the following people EXCEPT
(A) a researcher whose job is to identify potentially profitable areas for research
and product development
(B) a state official whose position requires her to alert farmers about possible
innovations in farming
(C) an official of a research foundation who identifies research projects for
potential funding
(D) a biologist attempting to keep up with scientific developments in an area
outside of his immediate area of specialization
(E) a botanist conducting experiments to determine the relationship between degree
of mycorrhizal infection and expected uptake of phosphate

19. It can be inferred from the passage that which of the following has been a factor influencing the extent to which research on mycorrhizal fungi has progressed?
(A) Lack of funding for such research
(B) Lack of immediate application of such research
(C) Lack of a method for identifying mycorrhizal fungi
(D) Difficulties surrounding laboratory production of specimens for study
(E) Difficulties ensuing from the high cost and scarcity of super phosphate
fertilizers

20. The passage suggests which of the following about the increased resistance to
harmful root fungi that some plants infected with mycorrhizal fungi seem to
exhibit?
(A) There are at least three hypotheses that might account for the increase.
(B) An explanation lies in the fact that mycorrhizal fungi increase more rapidly in
number than harmful root fungi do.
(C) The plants that show increased resistance also exhibit improved nitrogen
fixation.
(D) Such increases may be independent of mycorrhizal infection.
(E) It is unlikely that a satisfactory explanation can be found to account for the
increase.


In the early 1950's, historians who studied pre
industrial Europe (which we may define here as
Europe in the period from roughly 1300 to 1800)
began, for the first time in large numbers, to inves-
(5) tigate more of the preindustrial European popula-
tion than the 2 or 3 percent who comprised the
political and social elite: the kings, generals, judges,
nobles, bishops, and local magnates who had hith-
erto usually filled history books. One difficulty,
(10) however, was that few of the remaining 97 percent
recorded their thoughts or had them chronicled by
contemporaries. Faced with this situation, many
historians based their investigations on the only
records that seemed to exist: birth, marriage, and
(15) death records. As a result, much of the early work
on the nonelite was aridly statistical in nature;
reducing the vast majority of the population to a
set of numbers was hardly more enlightening than
ignoring them altogether. Historians still did not
(20) know what these people thought or felt.
One way out of this dilemma was to turn to the
records of legal courts, for here the voices of the
nonelite can most often be heard, as witnesses,
plaintiffs, and defendants. These documents have
(25) acted as "a point of entry into the mental world of
the poor." Historians such as Le Roy Ladurie have
used the documents to extract case histories, which
have illuminated the attitudes of different social
groups (these attitudes include, but are not confined
(30) to, attitudes toward crime and the law) and have
revealed how the authorities administered justice. It
has been societies that have had a developed police
system and practiced Roman law, with its written
depositions, whose court records have yielded the
(35) most data to historians. In Anglo-Saxon countries
hardly any of these benefits obtain, but it has still
been possible to glean information from the study
of legal documents.
The extraction of case histories is not, however,
(40) the only use to which court records may be put.
Historians who study preindustrial Europe have
used the records to establish a series of categories of
crime and to quantify indictments that were issued
over a given number of years. This use of the
(45) records does yield some information about the
nonelite, but this information gives us little insight
into the mental lives of the nonelite. We also know
that the number of indictments in preindustrial
Europe bears little relation to the number of actual
(50) criminal acts, and we strongly suspect that the rela-
tionship has varied widely over time. In addition,
aggregate population estimates are very shaky,
which makes it difficult for historians to compare
rates of crime per thousand in one decade of the
(55) preindustrial period with rates in another decade.
Given these inadequacies, it is clear why the case
history use of court records is to be preferred.

21. The author suggests that, before the early 1950's, most historians who studied
preindustrial Europe did which of the following?
(A) Failed to make distinctions among members of the preindustrial European
political and social elite.
(B) Used investigatory methods that were almost exclusively statistical in nature.
(B) Inaccurately estimated the influence of the preindustrial European political and
social elite.
(C) Confined their work to a narrow range of the preindustrial European
population.
(E) Tended to rely heavily on birth, marriage, and death records.

22. According to the passage, the case histories extracted by historians have
(A) scarcely illuminated the attitudes of the political and social elite
(B) indicated the manner in which those in power apportioned justice
(D) focused almost entirely on the thoughts and feelings of different social groups
toward crime and the law
(E) been considered the first kind of historical writing that utilized the records of
legal courts
(F) been based for the most part on the trial testimony of police and other legal
authorities

23. It can be inferred from the passage that much of the early work by historians on
the European nonelite of the preindustrial period might have been more
illuminating if these historians had
(A) used different methods of statistical analysis to investigate the nonelite
(B) been more successful in identifying the attitudes of civil authorities, especially
those who administered justice, toward the nonelite
(C) been able to draw on more accounts, written by contemporaries of the nonelite,
that described what this nonelite thought
(D) relied more heavily on the personal records left by members of the European
political and social elite who lived during the period in question
(E) been more willing to base their research on the birth, marriage, and death
records of the nonelite

24. The author mentions Le Roy Ladurie (line 26) in order to
(A) give an example of a historian who has made one kind of use of court records
(B) cite a historian who has based case histories on the birth, marriage, and death
records of the nonelite
(C) identify the author of the quotation cited in the previous sentence
(D) gain authoritative support for the view that the case history approach is the
most fruitful approach to court records
(E) point out the first historian to realize the value of court records in illuminating the beliefs and values of the nonelite

25. According to the passage, which of the following is true of indictments for crime
in Europe in the pre-industrial period?
(A) They have, in terms of their numbers, remained relatively constant over time.
(B) They give the historian important information about the mental lives of those
indicted.
(C) They are not a particularly accurate indication of the extent of actual criminal
activity.
(D) Their importance to historians of the nonelite has been generally overestimated.
(E) Their problematic relationship to actual crime has not been acknowledged by
most historians.

26. It can be inferred from the passage that a historian who wished to compare crime
rates per thousand in a European city in one decade of the fifteenth century with
crime rates in another decade of that century would probably be most aided by better information about which of the following?
(A) The causes of unrest in the city during the two decades
(B) The aggregate number of indictments in the city nearest to the city under
investigation during the two decades
(C) The number of people who lived in the city during each of the decades under
investigation
(D) The mental attitudes of criminals in the city, including their feelings about
authority, during each of the decades under investigation
(E) The possibilities for a member of the city's nonelite to become a member of the
political and social elite during the two decades

27. The passage would be most likely to appear as part of
(A) a book review summarizing the achievements of historians of the European
aristocracy
(B) an essay describing trends in the practice of writing history
(C) a textbook on the application of statistical methods in the social sciences
(C) a report to the historical profession on the work of early-twentieth-century
historians
(E) an article urging the adoption of historical methods by the legal profession


Key:
1.BEDA
2.DBCAC CB


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?6??

Our visual perception depends on the
reception of energy reflecting or radiating from
that which we wish to perceive. If our eyes could
receive and measure infinitely delicate sense-
(5) data, we could perceive the world with infinite
precision. The natural limits of our eyes have, of
course, been extended by mechanical instru-
ments; telescopes and microscopes, for example,
expand our capabilities greatly. There is, how-
(10) ever, an ultimate limit beyond which no instru-
ment can take us; this limit is imposed by our
inability to receive sense-data smaller than those
conveyed by an individual quantum of energy.
Since these quanta are believed to be indivisible
(15)packages of energy and so cannot be further
refined, we reach a point beyond which further
resolution of the world is not possible. It is like a
drawing a child might make by sticking indivis-
ible discs of color onto a canvas.
(20) We might think that we could avoid this
limitation by using quanta with extremely long
wavelengths; such quanta would be sufficiently
sensitive to convey extremely delicate sense-data.
And these quanta would be useful, as long as we
(25) only wanted to measure energy, but a completely
accurate perception of the world will depend
also on the exact measurement of the lengths
and positions of what we wish to perceive. For
this, quanta of extremely long wavelengths are
(30) useless. To measure a length accurately to within
a millionth of an inch, we must have a measure
graduate in millionths of an inch; a yardstick
graduated in inches is useless. Quanta with a
wavelength of one inch would be, in a sense,
(35) measures that are graduated in inches. Quanta
of extremely long wavelength are useless in
measuring anything except extremely large
dimensions.
Despite these difficulties, quanta have
(40) important theoretical implications for physics. It
used to be supposed that, in the observation of
nature, the universe could be divided into two
distinct parts, a perceiving subject and a per-
ceived object. In physics, subject and object were
(45) supposed to be entirely distinct, so that a descrip-
tion of any part of the universe would be
independent of the observer. The quantum
theory, however, suggests otherwise, for every
observation involves the passage of a complete
(50) quantum from the object to the subject, and it
now appears that this passage constitutes an
important coupling between observer and
observed. We can no longer make a sharp
division between the two in an effort to observe
(55) nature objectively. Such an attempt at objec-
tivity would distort the crucial interrelationship
of observer and observed as parts of a single
whole. But, even for scientists, it is only in the
world of atoms that this new development
(60) makes any appreciable difference in the explana-
tion of observations.

17. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) discuss a problem that hinders precise perception of the world
(B) point out the inadequacies of accepted units of measurement
(C) criticize attempts to distinguish between perceiving subjects and perceived objects
(D) compare and contrast rival scientific hypotheses about how the world should be measured
and observed
(E) suggest the limited function of sensory observation

18. According to the passage, quanta with an extremely long wavelength cannot be used to give
complete information about the physical world because they
(A) exist independently of sense-data
(B) are graduated only in inches
(C) have an insignificant amount of energy
(D) cannot, with present-day instruments, be isolated from quanta of shorter wavelength
(E) provide an insufficiently precise means of measuring length and position

19. Which of the following describes a situation most analogous to the situation discussed in
lines 9-13?
(A) A mathematician can only solve problems the solution of which can be deduced from
known axioms.
(B) An animal can respond to no command that is more complicated syntactically than any it
has previously received.
(C) A viewer who has not learned, at least intuitively, the conventions of painting, cannot
understand perspective in a drawing.
(D) A sensitized film will record no detail on a scale that is smaller than the grain of the
film.
(E) A shadow cast on a screen by an opaque object will have a sharp edge only if the light
source is small or very distant.

20. The author uses the analogy of the child's drawing (lines 17-19) primarily in order to
(A) illustrate the ultimate limitation in the precision of sense-data conveyed by quanta
(B) show the sense of helplessness scientists feel in the face of significant observational
problems
(C) anticipate the objections of those scientists who believe that no instrumental aid to
observation is entirely reliable
(D) exemplify the similarities between packages of energy and varieties of color
(E) disparage those scientists who believe that measurement by means of quanta offers
an accurate picture of the world

21. The author implies that making a sharp division between subject and object in physics is
(A) possible in a measurement of an object's length and position, but not in a measurement of
its energy
(B) still theoretically possible in the small-scale world of atoms and electrons
(C) possible in the case of observations involving the passage of a complete quantum
(D) no longer an entirely accurate way to describe observation of the universe
(E) a goal at which scientists still aim

22. The author's use of the phrase "in a sense" (line 34) implies which of the following?
(A) Quanta of extremely long wavelength are essentially graduated in inches.
(B) Quanta of one-inch wavelength are not precisely analogous to yardsticks graduated in
inches.
(C) Quanta of extremely long wavelength, in at lest one respect, resemble quanta of
shorter wavelength.
(D) Quanta of one-inch wavelength and quanta of extremely long wavelength do not differ
only in their wavelengths.
(D) Quanta of one-inch wavelength must be measured by different standards than quanta of
extremely long wavelength.

23. According to the passage, the quantum theory can be distinguished from previous theories of
physics by its
(A) insistence on scrupulously precise mathematical formulations
(B) understanding of the inherent interrelationship of perceiver and perceived
(C) recognition of the need for sophisticated instruments of measurement
(D) emphasis on small-scale rather than on large-scale phenomena
(E) regard for philosophical issues as well as for strictly scientific ones


Tillie Olsen's fiction and essays have been
widely and rightly acknowledged as major con-
tributions to American literature. Her work has
been particularly valued by contemporary fem-
(5) inists. Yet few of Olsen's readers realize the
extent to which her vision and choice of subject
are rooted in an earlier literary heritage-the
tradition of radical political thought, mostly
socialist and anarchist, of the 1910's and 1920's,
(10) and the Old Left tradition of the 1930's. I do not
mean that one can adequately explain the elo-
quence of her work in terms of its political
origins, or that left-wing politics were the single
most important influence on it. My point is that
(15) its central consciousness-its profound under-
standing of class and gender as shaping influ-
ences on people's lives-owes much to that
earlier literary heritage, a heritage that, in
general, has not been sufficiently valued by
most contemporary literary critics.

24. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) argue that Olsen's understanding of class and gender is her greatest gift as a writer
(B) acknowledge Olsen's importance as the leading spokesperson for a radical literary
heritage
(C) point out a literary heritage to which Olsen's work is related
(D) urge literary critics to investigate the origins of a literary heritage
(E) suggest that Olsen's work has been placed in a literary heritage to which it does not
belong

25. According to the author, which of the following is true of the heritage mentioned in the
passage?
(A) It emphasizes gender as the determinate influence on people's lives.
(B) It has been the most important influence on Olsen's work.
(C) It includes political traditions that span three decades of the twentieth century.
(D) It explains the eloquence but not the subject matter of Olsen's work.
(E) It reflects primarily the development of socialist political thought in the early
twentieth century.

26. In the sentence "I do notinfluence on it" (lines 10-14), the author does which of the
following?
(A) Broadens an existing classification.
(B) Contradicts the passage's central thesis.
(C) Qualifies a commonly accepted point of view.
(D) Presents conflicting explanations for a phenomenon.
(E) Denies possible interpretations of an earlier assertion.

27. According to the author, Olsen's work has been
(A) rightly acknowledged for its contribution to political thought
(B) thought to represent the beginning of a new literary tradition
(C) a needed impetus for social change
(D) most clearly influenced by feminism
(E) deservedly admired by readers


Key:
1.AEDAD BB
2.CCEE



   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?6??

Our visual perception depends on the
reception of energy reflecting or radiating from
that which we wish to perceive. If our eyes could
receive and measure infinitely delicate sense-
(5) data, we could perceive the world with infinite
precision. The natural limits of our eyes have, of
course, been extended by mechanical instru-
ments; telescopes and microscopes, for example,
expand our capabilities greatly. There is, how-
(10) ever, an ultimate limit beyond which no instru-
ment can take us; this limit is imposed by our
inability to receive sense-data smaller than those
conveyed by an individual quantum of energy.
Since these quanta are believed to be indivisible
(15)packages of energy and so cannot be further
refined, we reach a point beyond which further
resolution of the world is not possible. It is like a
drawing a child might make by sticking indivis-
ible discs of color onto a canvas.
(20) We might think that we could avoid this
limitation by using quanta with extremely long
wavelengths; such quanta would be sufficiently
sensitive to convey extremely delicate sense-data.
And these quanta would be useful, as long as we
(25) only wanted to measure energy, but a completely
accurate perception of the world will depend
also on the exact measurement of the lengths
and positions of what we wish to perceive. For
this, quanta of extremely long wavelengths are
(30) useless. To measure a length accurately to within
a millionth of an inch, we must have a measure
graduate in millionths of an inch; a yardstick
graduated in inches is useless. Quanta with a
wavelength of one inch would be, in a sense,
(35) measures that are graduated in inches. Quanta
of extremely long wavelength are useless in
measuring anything except extremely large
dimensions.
Despite these difficulties, quanta have
(40) important theoretical implications for physics. It
used to be supposed that, in the observation of
nature, the universe could be divided into two
distinct parts, a perceiving subject and a per-
ceived object. In physics, subject and object were
(45) supposed to be entirely distinct, so that a descrip-
tion of any part of the universe would be
independent of the observer. The quantum
theory, however, suggests otherwise, for every
observation involves the passage of a complete
(50) quantum from the object to the subject, and it
now appears that this passage constitutes an
important coupling between observer and
observed. We can no longer make a sharp
division between the two in an effort to observe
(55) nature objectively. Such an attempt at objec-
tivity would distort the crucial interrelationship
of observer and observed as parts of a single
whole. But, even for scientists, it is only in the
world of atoms that this new development
(60) makes any appreciable difference in the explana-
tion of observations.

17. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) discuss a problem that hinders precise perception of the world
(B) point out the inadequacies of accepted units of measurement
(C) criticize attempts to distinguish between perceiving subjects and perceived objects
(D) compare and contrast rival scientific hypotheses about how the world should be measured
and observed
(E) suggest the limited function of sensory observation

18. According to the passage, quanta with an extremely long wavelength cannot be used to give
complete information about the physical world because they
(A) exist independently of sense-data
(B) are graduated only in inches
(C) have an insignificant amount of energy
(D) cannot, with present-day instruments, be isolated from quanta of shorter wavelength
(E) provide an insufficiently precise means of measuring length and position

19. Which of the following describes a situation most analogous to the situation discussed in
lines 9-13?
(A) A mathematician can only solve problems the solution of which can be deduced from
known axioms.
(B) An animal can respond to no command that is more complicated syntactically than any it
has previously received.
(C) A viewer who has not learned, at least intuitively, the conventions of painting, cannot
understand perspective in a drawing.
(D) A sensitized film will record no detail on a scale that is smaller than the grain of the
film.
(E) A shadow cast on a screen by an opaque object will have a sharp edge only if the light
source is small or very distant.

20. The author uses the analogy of the child's drawing (lines 17-19) primarily in order to
(A) illustrate the ultimate limitation in the precision of sense-data conveyed by quanta
(B) show the sense of helplessness scientists feel in the face of significant observational
problems
(C) anticipate the objections of those scientists who believe that no instrumental aid to
observation is entirely reliable
(D) exemplify the similarities between packages of energy and varieties of color
(E) disparage those scientists who believe that measurement by means of quanta offers
an accurate picture of the world

21. The author implies that making a sharp division between subject and object in physics is
(A) possible in a measurement of an object's length and position, but not in a measurement of
its energy
(B) still theoretically possible in the small-scale world of atoms and electrons
(C) possible in the case of observations involving the passage of a complete quantum
(D) no longer an entirely accurate way to describe observation of the universe
(E) a goal at which scientists still aim

22. The author's use of the phrase "in a sense" (line 34) implies which of the following?
(A) Quanta of extremely long wavelength are essentially graduated in inches.
(B) Quanta of one-inch wavelength are not precisely analogous to yardsticks graduated in
inches.
(C) Quanta of extremely long wavelength, in at lest one respect, resemble quanta of
shorter wavelength.
(D) Quanta of one-inch wavelength and quanta of extremely long wavelength do not differ
only in their wavelengths.
(D) Quanta of one-inch wavelength must be measured by different standards than quanta of
extremely long wavelength.

23. According to the passage, the quantum theory can be distinguished from previous theories of
physics by its
(A) insistence on scrupulously precise mathematical formulations
(B) understanding of the inherent interrelationship of perceiver and perceived
(C) recognition of the need for sophisticated instruments of measurement
(D) emphasis on small-scale rather than on large-scale phenomena
(E) regard for philosophical issues as well as for strictly scientific ones


Tillie Olsen's fiction and essays have been
widely and rightly acknowledged as major con-
tributions to American literature. Her work has
been particularly valued by contemporary fem-
(5) inists. Yet few of Olsen's readers realize the
extent to which her vision and choice of subject
are rooted in an earlier literary heritage-the
tradition of radical political thought, mostly
socialist and anarchist, of the 1910's and 1920's,
(10) and the Old Left tradition of the 1930's. I do not
mean that one can adequately explain the elo-
quence of her work in terms of its political
origins, or that left-wing politics were the single
most important influence on it. My point is that
(15) its central consciousness-its profound under-
standing of class and gender as shaping influ-
ences on people's lives-owes much to that
earlier literary heritage, a heritage that, in
general, has not been sufficiently valued by
most contemporary literary critics.

24. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) argue that Olsen's understanding of class and gender is her greatest gift as a writer
(B) acknowledge Olsen's importance as the leading spokesperson for a radical literary
heritage
(C) point out a literary heritage to which Olsen's work is related
(D) urge literary critics to investigate the origins of a literary heritage
(E) suggest that Olsen's work has been placed in a literary heritage to which it does not
belong

25. According to the author, which of the following is true of the heritage mentioned in the
passage?
(A) It emphasizes gender as the determinate influence on people's lives.
(B) It has been the most important influence on Olsen's work.
(C) It includes political traditions that span three decades of the twentieth century.
(D) It explains the eloquence but not the subject matter of Olsen's work.
(E) It reflects primarily the development of socialist political thought in the early
twentieth century.

26. In the sentence "I do notinfluence on it" (lines 10-14), the author does which of the
following?
(A) Broadens an existing classification.
(B) Contradicts the passage's central thesis.
(C) Qualifies a commonly accepted point of view.
(D) Presents conflicting explanations for a phenomenon.
(E) Denies possible interpretations of an earlier assertion.

27. According to the author, Olsen's work has been
(A) rightly acknowledged for its contribution to political thought
(B) thought to represent the beginning of a new literary tradition
(C) a needed impetus for social change
(D) most clearly influenced by feminism
(E) deservedly admired by readers


Key:
1.AEDAD BB
2.CCEE


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?7??

Currently, the paramount problem in the
field of biomaterials, the science of replacing
diseased tissue with human-made implants, is
control over the interface, or surface, between
(5) implanted biomaterials and living tissues. The
physical properties of most tissues can be
matched by careful selection of raw materials:
metals, ceramics, or several varieties of polymer
materials. Even the requirement that biomater-
(10) ials processed from these materials be nontoxic
to host tissue can be met by techniques derived
from studying the reactions of tissue cultures to
biomaterials or from short-term implants. But
achieving necessary matches in physical prop-
(15) erties across interfaces between living and non-
living matter requires knowledge of which
molecules control the bonding of cells to each
other-an area that we have not yet explored
thoroughly. Although recent research has
(20) allowed us to stabilize the tissue-biomaterial
interface by controlling either the chemical
reactions or the microstructure of the biomate-
rials, our fundamental understanding of how
implant devices adhere to tissues remains
woefully incomplete.

17. According to the passage, the major problem currently facing scientists in the field of bio-
materials is
(A) assessing and regulating the bonding between host tissue and implants
(B) controlling the transfer of potentially toxic materials across the interface of tissue and
implant
(C) discovering new materials from which to construct implant devices
(D) deciding in what situations implants are needed
(E) determining the importance of short-term implants to long-term stability of tissue
implant interfaces

18. The passage suggests which of the following about the recent research mentioned in lines
19-25?
(A) It has solved one set of problems but has created another.
(B) It has concentrated on secondary concerns but has ignored primary concerns.
(C) It has improved practical applications of biomaterial technology without providing a
complete theoretical explanation of that improvement.
(D) It has thoroughly investigated properties of biomaterials but has paid little attention to
relevant characteristics of human tissue.
(E) It has provided considerable information on short-term implant technology but little on
long-term implant technology.

19. The author's primary purpose is to
(A) answer a theoretical question in the field of biomaterials
(B) discuss the current state of technology in the field of biomaterials
(C) resolve a research dispute in the field of biomaterials
(D) predict an ethical crisis for biomaterials researchers
(E) suggest some practical benefits of biomaterial implants


Islamic law is a particularly instructive example of
"sacred law." Islamic law is a phenomenon so different
from all other forms of law-notwithstanding, of
course, a considerable and inevitable number of coin-
cidences with one or the other of them as far as subject
matter and positive enactment are concerned-that
its study is indispensable in order to appreciate
adequately the full range of possible legal phenomena.
Even the two other representatives of sacred law that
are historically and geographically nearest to it, Jewish
law and Roman Catholic canon law, are perceptibly
different.
Both Jewish law and canon law are more uniform
than Islamic law. Though historically there is a
discernible break between Jewish law of the sovereign
state of ancient Israel and of the Diaspora (the disper-
sion of Jewish people after the conquest of Israel), the
spirit of the legal matter in later parts of the Old
Testament is very close to that of the Talmud, one of
the primary codifications of Jewish law in the
Diaspora. Islam, on the other hand, represented a
radical breakaway from the Arab paganism that pre-
ceded it; Islamic law is the result of an examination,
from a religious angle, of legal subject matter that was
far from uniform, comprising as it did the various
components of the laws of pre-Islamic Arabia and
numerous legal elements taken over from the non-
Arab peoples of the conquered territories. All this was
unified by being subjected to the same kind of religious
scrutiny, the impact of which varied greatly, being
almost nonexistent in some fields, and in others
originating novel institutions. This central duality of
legal subject matter and religious norm is additional
to the variety of legal, ethical, and ritual rules that is
typical of sacred law.
In its relation to the secular state, Islamic law
differed from both Jewish and canon law. Jewish law
was buttressed by the cohesion of the community,
reinforced by pressure from outside; its rules are the
direct expression of this feeling of cohesion, tending
toward the accommodation of dissent. Canon and
Islamic law, on the contrary, were dominated by the
dualism of religion and state, where the state was not,
in contrast with Judaism, an alien power but the
political expression of the same religion. But the
conflict between state and religion took different
forms; in Christianity it appeared as the struggle for
political power on the part of a tightly organized
ecclesiastical hierarchy, and canon law was one of its
political weapons. Islamic law, on the other hand, was
never supported by an organized institution; conse-
quently, there never developed an overt trial of
strength. There merely existed discordance between
application of the sacred law and many of the
regulations framed by Islamic states; this antagonism
varied according to place and time.

20. The author's purpose in comparing Islamic law to Jewish law and canon law is most probably
to
(A) contend that traditional legal subject matter does not play a large role in Islamic law
(B) support his argument that Islamic law is a unique kind of legal phenomenon
(C) emphasize the variety of forms that can all be considered sacred law
(D) provide an example of how he believes comparative institutional study should be
undertaken
(E) argue that geographical and historical proximity does not necessarily lead to parallel
institutional development

21. The passage provides information to answer which of the following questions?
(A) Does Islamic law depend on sources other than Arab legal principles?
(B) What secular practices of Islamic states conflicted with Islamic law?
(C) Are Jewish law and canon law the most typical examples of sacred law?
(D) Is Jewish law more uniform than canon law?
(E) What characterized Arab law of the pre-Islamic era?

22. According to the passage, which of the following statements about sacred law is correct?
(A) The various systems of sacred law originated in a limited geographical area.
(B) The various systems of sacred law have had marked influence on one another.
(C) Systems of sacred law usually rely on a wide variety of precedents.
(D) Systems of sacred law generally contain prescriptions governing diverse aspects of
human activity.
(E) Systems of sacred law function most effectively in communities with relatively
small populations.

23. It can be inferred from the passage that the application of Islamic law in Islamic states has
(A) systematically been opposed by groups who believe it is contrary to their interests
(B) suffered irreparably from the lack of firm institutional backing
(C) frequently been at odds with the legal activity of government institutions
(D) remained unaffected by the political forces operating alongside it
(E) benefited from the fact that it never experienced a direct confrontation with the state

24. Which of the following most accurately describes the organization of the passage?
(A) A universal principle is advanced and then discussed in relation to a particular historical
phenomenon.
(B) A methodological innovation is suggested and then examples of its efficacy are
provided.
(C) A traditional interpretation is questioned and then modified to include new data.
(D) A general opinion is expressed and then supportive illustrations are advanced.
(E) A controversial viewpoint is presented and then both supportive evidence and
contradictory evidence are cited.

25. The passage implies that the relationship of Islamic, Jewish, and canon law is correctly
described by which of the following statements?
I. Because each constitutes an example of acred law, they necessarily share some
features.
II. They each developed in reaction to the interference of secular political institutions.
III. The differences among them result partly from their differing emphasis on purely
ethical rules.
(A) I only (B) III only (C) I and II only
(D) II and III only (E) I, II, and III

26. The passage suggests that canon law differs from Islamic law in that only canon law
(A) contains prescriptions that nonsacred legal systems might regard as properly legal
(B) concerns itself with the duties of a person in regard to the community as a whole
(C) was affected by the tension of the conflict between religion and state
(D) developed in a political environment that did not challenge its fundamental existence
(E) played a role in the direct confrontation between institutions vying for power

27. All of the following statements about the development of Islamic law are implied in the
passage EXCEPT:
(A) Pre-Islamic legal principles were incorporated into Islamic law with widely differing
degrees of change.
(B) Diverse legal elements were joined together through the application of a purely religious
criterion.
(C) Although some of the sources of Islamic law were pagan, its integrity as a sacred law
was not compromised by their incorporation.
(C) There was a fundamental shared characteristic in all pre-Islamic legal matter taken over by
Islamic law.
(D) Although Islam emerged among the Arabs, Islamic law was influenced by ethnically
diverse elements.

Key:
1.ACB
2.BADCD AED


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?8??

Passage1
Traditionally, the study of history has had fixed
boundaries and focal points-periods, countries,
dramatic events, and great leaders. It also has had
clear and firm notions of scholarly procedure: how
(5) one inquires into a historical problem, how one
presents and documents one's findings, what consti-
tutes admissible and adequate proof.
Anyone who has followed recent historical liter-
ature can testify to the revolution that is taking
(10) place in historical studies. The currently fashionable
subjects come directly from the sociology catalog:
childhood, work, leisure. The new subjects are
accompanied by new methods. Where history once
was primarily narrative, it is now entirely analytic.
(15) The old questions "What happened?" and "How
did it happen?" have given way to the question
"Why did it happen?" Prominent among the
methods used to answer the question "Why"
is psychoanalysis, and its use has given rise to
(20) psychohistory.
Psychohistory does not merely use psychological
explanations in historical contexts. Historians have
always used such explanations when they were
appropriate and when there was sufficient evidence
(25) for them. But this pragmatic use of psychology is
not what psychohistorians intend. They are com-
mitted, not just to psychology in general, but to
Freudian psychoanalysis. This commitment pre-
cludes a commitment to history as historians have
(30) always understood it. Psychohistory derives its
"facts" not from history, the detailed records of
events and their consequences, but from psycho-
analysis of the individuals who made history, and
deduces its theories not from this or that instance
(35) in their lives, but from a view of human nature that
transcends history. It denies the basic criterion of
historical evidence: that evidence be publicly acces-
sible to, and therefore assessable by, all historians.
And it violates the basic tenet of historical method:
(40) that historians be alert to the negative instances
that would refute their theses. Psychohistorians,
convinced of the absolute rightness of their own
theories, are also convinced that theirs is the
"deepest" explanation of any event, that other
(45) explanations fall short of the truth.
Psychohistory is not content to violate the disci-
pline of history (in the sense of the proper mode of
studying and writing about the past); it also violates
the past itself. It denies to the past an integrity and
(50) will of its own, in which people acted out of a
variety of motives and in which events had a multi-
plicity of causes and effects. It imposes upon the
past the same determinism that it imposes upon the
present, thus robbing people and events of their
(50) individuality and of their complexity. Instead of
respecting the particularity of the past, it assimilates
all events, past and present, into a single determin-
istic schema that is presumed to be true at all times
and in all circumstances.

20. Which of the following best states the main point of the passage?
(A) The approach of psychohistorians to historicalstudy is currently in vogue even though it lacks the rigor and verifiability of traditional historical method.
(B) Traditional historians can benefit from studying the techniques and findings of psychohistorians.
(C) Areas of sociological study such as childhood and work are of little interest to traditional historians.
(D) The psychological assessment of an individual's behavior and attitudes is more informative than the details of his or her daily life.
(E) History is composed of unique and nonrepeating events that must be individually analyzed on the basis of publicly verifiable evidence.

21. It can be inferred from the passage that one way in which traditional history can be distinguished from psychohistory is that traditional history usual
(A) views past events as complex and having their own individuality
(B) relies on a single interpretation of human behavior to explain historical events
(A) interprets historical events in such a way that their specific nature is transcended
(B) turns to psychological explanations in historical contexts to account for events
(E) relies strictly on data that are concrete and quantifiable

22. It can be inferred from the passage that the methods used by psychohistorians probably prevent them from
(A) presenting their material in chronological order
(B) producing a one-sided picture of an individual's personality and motivations
(C) uncovering alternative explanations that might cause them to question their own conclusions
(D)offering a consistent interpretation of the impact of personality on historical events
(E)recognizing connections between a government's political actions and the aspirations of government leaders

23. The passage supplies information for answering which of the following questions?
(A) What are some specific examples of the use of psychohistory in historical interpretation?
(B) When were the conventions governing the practice of traditional history first established?
(C).When do traditional historians consider psycho-logical explanations of historical developments appropriate?
(D).What sort of historical figure is best suited for psychohistorical analysis?
(E)What is the basic criterion of historical evidence required by traditional historians?

24. The author mentions which of the following as a characteristic of the practice of psychohistorians?
(A) The lives of historical figures are presented in episodic rather than narrative form.
(B) Archives used by psychohistorians to gather material are not accessible to other scholars.
(C) Past and current events are all placed within the same deterministic schema.
(D) Events in the adult life of a historical figure are seen to be more consequential than are those in the childhood of the figure.
(E) Analysis is focused on group behavior rather than on particular events in an individual's life.

25. The author of the passage suggests that psychohistorians view history primarily as
(A) a report of events, causes, and effects that is generally accepted by historians but which is, for the most part, unverifiable
(B) an episodic account that lacks cohesion because records of the role of childhood, work, and leisure in the lives of historical figures are rare
(C) an uncharted sea of seemingly unexplainable events that have meaning only when examined as discrete units
(D) a record of the way in which a closed set of immutable psychological laws seems to have shaped events
(E) a proof of the existence of intricate causal interrelationships between past and present events

26. The author of the passage puts the word "deepest" (line 44) in quotation marks most probably in order to
(A) signal her reservations about the accuracy of psychohistorians' claims for their work
(B) draw attention to a contradiction in the psychohistorians' method
(C) emphasize the major difference between the traditional historians' method and that of psychohistorians
(D) disassociate her opinion of the psychohistorians' claims from her opinion of their method
(E) question the usefulness of psychohistorians' insights into traditional historical scholarship

27. In presenting her analysis, the author does all of the following EXCEPT:
(A) Make general statement without reference to specific examples.
(B) Describe some of the criteria employed by traditional historians.
(C) Question the adequacy of the psychohistorians' interpretation of events.
(D) Point out inconsistencies in the psychohistorians' application of their methods.
(E) Contrast the underlying assumptions of psychohistorians with those of traditional historians.

Passage2
Jean Wagner's most enduring contribution to the
study of Afro-American poetry is his insistence that it be
analyzed in a religious, as well as secular, frame of refer-
ence. The appropriateness of such an approach may
seem self-evident for a tradition commencing with spiri-
tuals and owing its early forms, rhythms, vocabulary,
and evangelical fervor to Wesleyan hymnals. But before
Wagner a secular outlook that analyzed Black poetry
solely within the context of political and social protest
was dominant in the field.
It is Wagner who first demonstrated the essential
fusion of racial and religious feeling in Afro-American
poetry. The two, he argued, form a symbiotic union in
which religious feelings are often applied to racial issues
and racial problems are often projected onto a meta-
physical plane. Wagner found this most eloquently illus-
trated in the Black spiritual, where the desire for free-
dom in this world and the hope for salvation in the next
are inextricably intertwined.

17. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) contrast the theories of Jean Wagner with those of other contemporary critics
(B) document the influence of Jean Wagner on the development of Afro-American poetry
(C) explain the relevance of Jean Wagner's work to the study of Afro-American religion
(D) indicate the importance of Jean Wagner's analysis of Afro-American poetry
(E) present the contributions of Jean Wagner to the study of Black spirituals

18. All of the following aspects of Afro-American poetry are referred to in the passage as having been influenced by Wesleyan hymnals EXCEPT
(A) subject matter
(B) word choice
(C) rhythm
(D) structure
(E) tone

19. It can be inferred from the passage that, before Wagner, most students of Afro-American poetry did which of the following?
(A) Contributed appreciably to the transfer of political protest from Afro-American poetry to direct political action.
(B) Ignored at least some of the historical roots of Afro-American poetry.
(C) Analyzed fully the aspects of social protest to be found in such traditional forms of Afro-American poetry as the Black spiritual.
(D) Regarded as unimportant the development of fervent emotionalism in a portion of Afro-American poetry.
(E) Concentrated on the complex relations between the technical elements in Afro-
American poetry and its political content.


P1
Key: AACEC DAD
P2
Key: DAB


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?9??

Passage1
Two relatively recent independent developments
stand behind the current major research effort on
nitrogen fixation, the process by which bacteria
symbiotically render leguminous plants independent
(5) of nitrogen fertilizer. The one development has
been the rapid, sustained increase in the price of
nitrogen fertilizer. The other development has been
the rapid growth of knowledge of and technical
sophistication in genetic engineering. Fertilizer
(10) prices, largely tied to the price of natural gas, huge
amounts of which go into the manufacture of fertili-
zer, will continue to represent an enormous and
escalating economic burden on modern agriculture,
spurring the search for alternatives to synthetic fer-
(15) tilizers. And genetic engineering is just the sort of
fundamental breakthrough that opens up prospects
of wholly novel alternatives. One such novel idea is
that of inserting into the chromosomes of plants
discrete genes that are not a part of the plants' nat-
(20) ural constitution: specifically, the idea of inserting
into nonleguminous plants the genes, if they can be
identified and isolated, that fit the leguminous
plants to be hosts for nitrogen-fixing bacteria.
Hence, the intensified research on legumes.
(25) Nitrogen fixation is a process in which certain
bacteria use atmospheric nitrogen gas, which green
plants cannot directly utilize, to produce ammonia,
a nitrogen compound plants can use. It is one of
nature's great ironies that the availability of nitro-
(30) gen in the soil frequently sets an upper limit on
plant growth even though the plants' leaves are
bathed in a sea of nitrogen gas. The leguminous
plants-among them crop plants such as soybeans,
peas, alfalfa, and clover-have solved the nitrogen
(35) supply problem by entering into a symbiotic rela-
tionship with the bacterial genus Rhizobium; as a
matter of fact, there is a specific strain of Rhizo-
bium for each species of legume. The host plant
supplies the bacteria with food and a protected
(40) habitat and receives surplus ammonia in exchange.
Hence, legumes can thrive in nitrogen-depleted soil.
Unfortunately, most of the major food crops-
including maize, wheat, rice, and potatoes-cannot.
On the contrary, many of the high-yielding hybrid
(45) varieties of these food crops bred during the Green
Revolution of the 1960's were selected specifically
to give high yields in response to generous applica-
tions of nitrogen fertilizer. This poses an additional,
formidable challenge to plant geneticists: they must
(50) work on enhancing fixation within the existing sym-
bioses. Unless they succeed, the yield gains of the
Green Revolution will be largely lost even if the
genes in legumes that equip those plants to enter
into a symbiosis with nitrogen fixers are identified
(55) and isolated, and even if the transfer of those gene
complexes, once they are found, becomes possible.
The overall task looks forbidding, but the stakes
are too high not to undertake it.

20. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) expose the fragile nature of the foundations on which the high yields of modern agriculture rest
(B) argue that genetic engineering promises to lead to even higher yields than are achievable with synthetic fertilizers
(C) argue that the capacity for nitrogen-fixing symbioses is transferable to nonleguminous plants
(D) explain the reasons for and the objectives of current research on nitrogen-fixing symbioses
(E) describe the nature of the genes that regulate the symbiosis between legumes and certain bacteria

21. According to the passage, there is currently no strain of Rhizobium that can enter into a symbiosis with
(A) alfalfa
(B) clover
(C) maize
(D) peas
(E) soybeans

22. The passage implies that which of the following is true of the bacterial genus Rhizobium?
(A) Rhizobium bacteria are found primarily in nitrogen-depleted soils.
(B) Some strains of Rhizobium are not capable of entering into a symbiosis with any plant.
(C) Newly bred varieties of legumes cannot be hosts to any strain of Rhizobium.
(D) Rhizobium bacteria cannot survive outside the protected habitat provided by host plants.
(E) Rhizobium bacteria produce some ammonia for their own purposes.

23. It can be inferred from the passage that which of the following was the most influential factor in bringing about intensified research on nitrogen fixation?
(A) The high yields of the Green Revolution
(B) The persistent upward surge in natural gas prices
(C) The variety of Rhizobium strains
(D) The mechanization of modern agriculture
(E) The environmental ill effects of synthetic fertilizers

24. Which of the following situations is most closely analogous to the situation described by the author as one of nature's great ironies (lines 28-32)?
(A) That of a farmer whose crops have failed because the normal midseason rains did not materialize and no preparations for irrigation had been made
(B) That of a long-distance runner who loses a marathon race because of a wrong turn that cost him twenty seconds
(C) That of shipwrecked sailors at sea in a lifeboat, with one flask of drinking water to share among them
(A) That of a motorist who runs out of gas a mere five miles from the nearest gas station
(E) That of travelers who want to reach their destination as fast and as cheaply as possible, but find that cost increases as travel speed increases

25. According to the passage, the ultimate goal of the current research on nitrogen fixation is to develop
(A) strains of Rhizobium that can enter into symbioses with existing varieties of wheat, rice, and other nonlegnumes
(B) strains of Rhizobium that produce more ammonia for leguminous host plants than do any of the strains presently known
(C) varieties of wheat, rice, and other nonlegumes that yield as much as do existing varieties, but require less nitrogen
(D) varieties of wheat, rice, and other nonlegumes that maintain an adequate symbiotic relationship with nitrogen-fixing bacteria and produce high yields
(E) high-yielding varieties of wheat, rice, and other nonlegumes that are genetically equipped to fix nitrogen from the air without the aid of bacteria

26. The author regards the research program under discussion as
(A) original and extensive but ill-defined as to method
(B) necessary and ambitious but vulnerable to failure
(C) cogent and worthwhile but severely under-funded
(D) prohibitively expensive but conceptually elegant
(E) theoretically fascinating but practically useless

27. Most nearly parallel, in its fundamental approach, to the research program described in the passage would be a program designed to
(A) achieve greater frost resistance in frost tender food plants by means of selective breeding, thereby expanding those plants' area of cultivation
(B) achieve greater yields from food plants by interplanting crop plants that are mutually beneficial
(C) find inexpensive and abundant natural substances that could, without reducing yields, be substituted for expensive synthetic fertilizers
(D) change the genetic makeup of food plants that cannot live in water with high salinity, using genes from plants adapted to salt water
(E) develop, through genetic engineering, a genetic configuration for the major food plants that improves the storage characteristics of the edible portion of the plants


Passage2
Of Homer's two epic poems, the Odyssey has always
been more popular than the Iliad, perhaps because it
includes more features of mythology that are accessible
to readers. Its subject (to use Maynard Mack's cate-
gories) is "life-as-spectacle," for readers, diverted by its
various incidents, observe its hero Odysseus primarily
from without; the tragic Iliad, however, presents "life-as-
experience": readers are asked to identify with the mind
of Achilles, whose motivations render him a not particu-
larly likable hero. In addition, the Iliad, more than the
Odyssey, suggests the complexity of the gods' involve-
ment in human actions, and to the extent that modern
readers find this complexity a needless complication, the Iliad
is less satisfying than the Odyssey, with its simpler
'scheme of divine justice. Finally, since the Iliad presents
a historically verifiable action, Troy's siege, the poem
raises historical questions that are absent from the
Odyssey's blithely imaginative world.

17. The author uses Mack's "categories" (lines 4-5) most probably in order to
(A) argue that the Iliad should replace the Odyssey as the more popular poem
(B) indicate Mack's importance as a commentator on the Iliad and the Odyssey
(C) suggest one way in which the Iliad and the Odyssey can be distinguished
(D) point out some of the difficulties faced by readers of the Iliad and the Odyssey
(E) demonstrate that the Iliad and the Odyssey can best be distinguished by comparing their respective heroes

18. The author suggests that the variety of incidents in the Odyssey is likely to deter the reader from.
(A) concentrating on the poem's mythological features
(B) concentrating on the psychological states of the poem's central character
(C) accepting the explanation that have been offered for the poem's popularity
(D) accepting the poem's scheme of divine justice
(E) accepting Maynard Mack's theory that the poem's subject is "life-as-spectacle"

19. The passage is primarily concerned with
(A) distinguishing arguments
(B) applying classifications
(C) initiating a debate
(D) resolving a dispute
(E) developing a contrast

20. It can be inferred from the passage that a reader of the Iliad is likely to have trouble identifying with the poem's hero for which of the following reasons?
(A) The hero is eventually revealed to be unheroic.
(B) The hero can be observed by the reader only from without.
(C) The hero's psychology is not historically verifiable.
(D) The hero's emotions often do not seem appealing to the reader.
(E) The hero's emotions are not sufficiently various to engage the reader's attention.

P1
Key: DCEBC DBD
P2
Key: CBED


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?10??

Passage1
Flatfish, such as the flounder, are among the few
vertebrates that lack approximate bilateral symmetry
(symmetry in which structures to the left and right of the
body's midline are mirror images). Most striking among
(5) the many asymmetries evident in an adult flatfish is eye
placement: before maturity one eye migrates, so that in
an adult flatfish both eyes are on the same side of the
head. While in most species with asymmetries virtually
all adults share the same asymmetry, members of the
(10)starry flounder species can be either left-eyed (both eyes
on the left side of head) or right-eyed. In the waters
between the United States and Japan, the starry flounder
populations very from about 50 percent left-eyed off the
United States West Coast, through about 70 percent left-
(15)eyed halfway between the United States and Japan, to
nearly 100 percent left-eyed off the Japanese coast.
Biologists call this kind of gradual variation over a
certain geographic rang a "cline" and interpret clines as
strong indications that the variation is adaptive, a
(20)response to environmental differences. For the starry
flounder this interpretation implies that a geometric
difference (between fish that are mirror images of one
another) is adaptive, that left-eyedness in the Japanese
starry flounder has been selected for, which provokes a
(25)perplexing questions: what is the selective advantage in
having both eyes on one side rather than on the other?
The ease with which a fish can reverse the effect of
the sidedness of its eye asymmetry simply by turning
around has caused biologists to study internal anatomy,
(30)especially the optic nerves, for the answer. In all flatfish
the optic nerves cross, so that the right optic nerve is
joined to the brain's left side and vice versa. This
crossing introduces an asymmetry, as one optic nerve
must cross above or below the other. G. H. Parker
(35)reasoned that if, for example, a flatfish's left eye
migrated when the right optic nerve was on top, there
would be a twisting of nerves, which might be mechani-
cally disadvantageous. For starry flounders, then, the
left-eyed variety would be selected against, since in a
(40)starry flounder the left optic nerve is uppermost.
The problem with the above explanation is that the
Japanese starry flounder population is almost exclusively
left-eyed, an natural selection never promotes a purely
less advantageous variation. As other explanations
(45)proved equally untenable, biologists concluded that
there is no important adaptive difference between left-
eyedness and right-eyedness, and that the two character-
istics are genetically associated with some other adap-
tively significant characteristic. This situation is one
(50)commonly encountered by evolutionary biologists, who
must often decide whether a characteristic is adaptive or
selectively neutral. As for the left-eyed and right-eyed
flatfish, their difference, however striking, appears to be
an evolutionary red herring.

21. According to the passage, starry flounder differ from most other species of flatfish in that starry flounder
(A) are not basically bilaterally symmetric
(B) do not become asymmetric until adulthood
(C) do not all share the same asymmetry
(D) have both eyes on the same side of the head
(E) tend to cluster in only certain geographic regions

22. The author would be most likely to agree with which of the following statements about left-eyedness and right-eyedness in the starry flounder?
I. They are adaptive variations by the starry flounder to environmental differences.
II They do not seem to give obvious selective advantages to the starry flounder.
III They occur in different proportions in different locations.
(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) I and III only
(D) II and III only
(E) I, II, and III

23. According to the passage, a possible disadvantage associated with eye migration in flatfish is that the optic nerves can
(A) adhere to one another
(B) detach from the eyes
(C) cross
(D) stretch
(E) twist

24. Which of the following best describes the organization of the passage as a whole?
(A) A phenomenon is described and an interpretation presented and rejected.
(B) A generalization is made and supporting evidence is supplied and weighed.
(C) A contradiction is noted and a resolution is suggested and then modified.
(D) A series of observations is presented and explained in terms of the dominant theory.
(E) A hypothesis is introduced and corroborated in the light of new evidence.

25. The passage supplies information for answering which of the following questions?
(A) Why are Japanese starry flounder mostly left-eyed?
(B) Why should the eye-sidedness in starry flounder be considered selectively neutral?
(C) Why have biologists recently become interested in whether a characteristic is adaptive or selectively neutral?
(D) How do the eyes in flatfish migrate?
(E) How did Parker make his discoveries about the anatomy of optic nerves in flatfish?

26. Which of the following is most clearly similar to a cline as it is described in the second paragraph of the passage?
(A) A vegetable market in which the various items are grouped according to place of origin
(B) A wheat field in which different varieties of wheat are planted to yield a crop that will bring the maximum profit
(C) A flower stall in which the various species of flowers are arranged according to their price
(D) A housing development in which the length of the front struts supporting the porch of each house increases as houses are built up the hill
(E) A national park in which the ranger stations are placed so as to be inconspicuous, and yet as easily accessible as possible

27. Which of the following phrases from the passage best expresses the author's conclusion about the meaning of the difference between left-eyed and right-eyed flatfish?
(A) "Most striking" (line 4)
(B) "variation is adaptive" (line 19)
(C) "mechanically disadvantageous" (lines 37- 38)
(D) "adaptively significant" (lines 48-49)
(E) "evolutionary red herring" (line 54)


Passage2
if a supernova (the explosion of a massive star) trig-
gered star formation from dense clouds of gas and dust,
and if the most massive star to be formed from the cloud
evolved into a supernova and triggered a new round of
star formation, and so on, then a chain of star-forming
regions would result. If many such chains were created
in a differentially rotating galaxy, the distribution of
stars would resemble the observed distribute in a
spiral galaxy.
This line of reasoning underlies an exciting new
theory of spiral-galaxy structure. A computer simulation
based on this theory has reproduced the appearance of
many spiral galaxies without assuming an underlying
density wave, the hallmark of the most widely accepted
theory of the large-scale structure of spiral galaxies.
That theory maintains that a density wave of spiral
form sweeps through the central plane of a galaxy,
compressing clouds of gas and dust, which collapse
into stars that form a spiral pattern.

17. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) describe what results when a supernova triggers the creation of chains of star-forming regions
(B) propose a modification in the most widely accepted theory of spiral-galaxy structure
(C) compare and contrast the roles of clouds of gas and dust in two theories of spiral-galaxy structure
(D) describe a new theory of spiral-galaxy structure and contrast it with the most widely accepted theory
(E) describe a new theory of spiral-galaxy structure and discuss a reason why it is inferior to the most widely accepted theory

18. The passage implies that, according to the new theory of spiral-galaxy structure, a spiral galaxy can be created by supernovas when the supernovas are
(A) producing an underlying density wave
(B) affected by a density wave of spiral form
(C) distributed in a spiral pattern
(D) located in the central plane of a galaxy
(E) located in a differentially rotating galaxy

19. Which of the following, if true, would most discredit the new theory as described in the passage?
(A) The exact mechanism by which a star becomes a supernova is not yet completely known and may even differ for different stars.
(B) Chains of star-forming regions like those postulated in the new theory have been observed in the vicinity of dense clouds of gas and dust.
(C) The most massive stars formed from supernova explosions are unlikely to evolve into supernovas.
(D) Computer simulations of supernovas provide a poor picture of what occurs just before a supernova explosion.
(E) A density wave cannot compress clouds of gas and dust to a density high enough to create a star.

20. The author's attitude toward the new theory of spiral-galaxy structure can best be described as
(A) euphoric
(B) enthusiastic
(C) concerned
(D) critical
(E) disputatious


Passage3
Geologists have long known that the Earth's mantle
is heterogeneous, but its spatial arrangement remains
unresolved-is the mantle essentially layered or irregu-
larly heterogeneous? The best evidence for the layered-
(5) mantle thesis is the well-established fact that volcanic
rocks found on oceanic islands, islands believed to result
from mantle plumes arising from the lower mantle, are
composed of material fundamentally different from that
of the midocean ridge system, whose source, most geolo-
(10)gists contend, is the upper mantle.
Some geologists, however, on the basis of obser-
vations concerning mantle xenoliths, argue that the
mantle is not layered, but that heterogeneity is created
by fluids rich in "incompatible elements" (elements
(15)tending toward liquid rather than solid state) percolating
upward and transforming portions of the upper mantle
irregularly, according to the vagaries of the fluids' path-
ways. We believe, perhaps unimaginatively, that this
debate can be resolved through further study, and that
the underexplored midocean ridge system is the key.

17. Which of the following best expresses the main idea of the passage?
(A) Current theories regarding the structure of the Earth's mantle cannot account for new discoveries regarding the composition of mantle xenoliths.
(B) There are conflicting hypotheses about the heterogeneity of the Earth's mantle because few mantle elements have been thoroughly studied.
(C) Further research is needed to resolve the debate among geologists over the composition of the midocean ridge system.
(D) There is clear-cut disagreement within the geological community over the structure of the Earth's mantle.
(E) There has recently been a strong and exciting challenge to geologists' long-standing belief in the heterogeneity of the Earth's mantle.

18. According to the passage, it is believed that oceanic islands are formed from
(A) the same material as mantle xenoliths
(B) the same material as the midocean ridge system
(C) volcanic rocks from the upper mantle
(D) incompatible elements percolating up from the lower mantle
(E) mantle plumes arising from the lower mantle

19. It can be inferred from the passage that the sup-porters of the "layered-mantle" theory believe which of the following?
I. The volcanic rocks on oceanic islands are composed of material derived from the lower part of the mantle.
II. The materials of which volcanic rocks on oceanic islands and midocean ridges are composed are typical of the layers from which they are thought to originate.
III. The differences in composition between volcanic rocks on oceanic islands and the midocean ridges are a result of different concentrations of incompatible elements.
(A) I only
(B) III only
(C) I and II only
(D) II and III only
(E) I, II, and III

20. The authors suggest that their proposal for determining the nature of the mantle's heterogeneity might be considered by many to be
(A) pedestrian
(B) controversial
(C) unrealistic
(D) novel
(E) paradoxical

P1
Key: CDEAB DE
P2
Key: DECB
P3
Key: DECA



   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?11??

PASSAGE 1
Roger Rosenblatt's book Black Fiction, in attempt
ing to apply literary rather than sociopolitical criteria
to its subject, successfully alters the approach taken by
most previous studies. As Rosenblatt notes, criticism
of Black writing has often served as a pretext for ex-
pounding on Black history. Addison Gayle's recent
work, for example, judges the value of Black fiction
by overtly political standards, rating each work ac-
cording to the notions of Black identity which it
propounds.
Although fiction assuredly springs from political
circumstances, its authors react to those circumstances
in ways other than ideological, and talking about
novels and stories primarily as instruments of idology
circumvents much of the fictional enterprise. Rosen-
blatt's literary analysis discloses affinities and con-
nections among works of Black fiction which solely
political studies have overlooked or ignored.
Writing acceptable criticism of Black fiction, how-
ever, presupposes giving satisfactory answers to a
number of questions. First of all, is there a sufficient
reason, other than the racial identity of the authors, to
group together works by Black authors? Second, how
does Black fiction make itself distinct from other
modern fiction with which it is largely contempora-
neous? Rosenblatt shows that Black fiction constitutes
a distinct body of writing that has an identifiable,
coherent literary tradition. Looking at novels written
by Blacks over the last eighty years, he discovers re-
curring concerns and designs independent of chronol-
ogy. These structures are thematic, and they spring,
not surprisingly, from the central fact that the Black
characters in these novels exist in a predominantly
White culture, whether they try to conform to that
culture of rebel against it.
Black Fiction does leave some aesthetic questions
open. Rosenblatt's thematic analysis permits consider-
able objectivity; he even explicitly states that it is not
his intention to judge the merit of the various works-
yet his reluctance seems misplaced, especially since an
attempt to appraise might have led to interesting
results. For instance, some of the novels appear to be
structurally diffuse. Is this a defect, or are the authors
working out of, or trying to forge, a different kind of
aesthetic? In addition, the style of some Black novels,
like Jean Toomer's Cane, verges on expressionism or
surrealism; does this technique provide a counterpoint
to the prevalent theme that portrays the fate against
which Black heroes are pitted, a theme usually con-
veyed by more naturalistic modes of expression?
In spite of such omissions, what Rosenblatt does
include in his discussion makes for an astute and
worthwhile study. Black Fiction surveys a wide variety of novels, bringing to our attention in the process some fascinating and little-known works like James Weldon Johnson's Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man. Its argument is tightly constructed, and its forthright, lucid style exemplifies levelheaded and penetrating criticism.

21. The author of the passage objects to criticism of
Black fiction like that by Addison Gayle
because it
(A) emphasizes purely literary aspects of such
fiction
(B) misinterprets the ideological content of
such fiction
(C) misunderstands the notions of Black
identity contained in such fiction
(D) substitutes political for literary criteria in
evaluating such fiction
(E) ignores the interplay between Black history
and Black identity displayed in such
fiction

22. The author of the passage is primarily
concerned with
(A) evaluating the soundness of a work of
criticism
(B) comparing various critical approaches to a
subject
(C) discussing the limitations of a particular
kind of criticism
(D) summarizing the major points made in a
work of criticism
(E) explaining the theoretical background of a
certain kind of criticism

23. The author of the passage believes that Black
Fiction would have been improved had
Rosenblatt
(A) evaluated more carefully the ideological
and historical aspects of Black fiction
(B) attempted to be more objective in his
approach to novels and stories by Black
authors
(C) explored in greater detail the recurrent
thematic concerns of Black fiction
throughout its history
(D) established a basis for placing Black fiction
within its own unique literary tradition
(E) assessed the relative literaray merit of the
novels he analyzes thematically

24. The author's discussion of Black Fiction can
be best described as
(A) pedantic and contentious
(B) critical but admiring
(C) ironic and deprecating
(D) argumentative but unfocused
(E) stilted and insincere

25. It can be inferred that the author of the passage
would be LEAST likely to approve of which
of the following?
(A) An analysis of the influence of political
events on the personal ideology of Black
writes
(B) A critical study that applies sociopolitical
criteria to autobiographies by Black
authors
(C) A literary study of Black poetry that
appraises the merits of poems according
to the political acceptability of their
themes
(D) An examination of the growth of a distinct
Black literary tradition within the context of
Black history
(E) A literary study that attempts to isolate
aesthetic qualities unique to Black fiction

26. The author of the passage uses all of the
following in the discussion of Rosenblatt's
book EXCEPT
(A) rhetorical questions
(B) specific examples
(C) comparison and contrast
(D) definition of terms
(E) personal opinion

27. The author of the passage refers to James
Weldon Johnson's Autobiography of an Ex-
Colored Man most probably in order to
(A) point out affinities between Rosenblatt's
method of thematic analysis and earlier
criticism
(B) clarify the point about expressionistic style
made earlier in the passage
(C) qualify the assessment of Rosenblatt's book
made in the first paragraph of the passage
(D) illustrate the affinities among Black novels
disclosed by Rosenblatt's literary analysis
(E) give a specific example of one of the
accomplishments of Rosenblatt's work


Passage 2
Some modern anthropologists hold that biological
evolution has shaped not only human morphology but
also human behavior. The role those anthropologists
ascribe to evolution is not of dictating the details of
human behavior but one of imposing constraints-
ways of feeling, thinking, and acting that "come natu-
rally" in archetypal situations in any culture. Our
"frailties" -emotions and motives such as rage, fear,
greed, gluttony, joy, lust, love-may be a very mixed
assortment, but they share at least one immediate
quality: we are, as we say, "in the grip" of them. And
thus they give us our sense of constraints.
Unhappily, some of those frailties-our need for
ever-increasing security among them-are presently
maladaptive. Yet beneath the overlay of cultural
detail, they, too, are said to be biological in direction,
and therefore as natural to us as are our appendixes.
We would need to comprehend thoroughly their adap-
adaptive origins in order to understand how badly they
guide us now. And we might then begin to resist their
pressure.

24. The primary purpose of the passage is to present
(A) a position on the foundations of human
behavior and on what those foundations
imply
(B) a theory outlining the parallel development
of human morphology and of human
behavior
(C) a diagnostic test for separating biologically
determined behavior patterns from
culture-specific detail
(D) a practical method for resisting the
pressures of biologically determined
drives
(E) an overview of those human emotions and
motives that impose constraints on
human behavior

25. The author implies that control to any extent
over the "frailties" that constrain our behavior is
thought to presuppose
(A) that those frailties are recognized as
currently beneficial and adaptive
(B) that there is little or no overlay of cultural
detail that masks their true nature
(C) that there are cultures in which those
frailties do not "come naturally" and from
which such control can be learned
(D) a full understanding of why those frailties
evolved and of how they function now
(E) a thorough grasp of the principle that
cultural detail in human behavior can
differ arbitrarily from society to society

26. Which of the following most probably provides
an appropriate analogy from human morphol-
ogy for the "details" versus "constraints"
distinction made in the passage in relation to
human behavior?
(A) The ability of most people to see all the
colors of the visible spectrum as against
most people's inability to name any but
the imary colors
(B) The ability of even the least fortunate
people to show compassion as against
people's inability to mask their feelings
completely
(C) The ability of some people to dive to great
depths as against most people's inability
to swim long distances
(D) The psychological profile of those people
who are able to delay gratification as
against people's inability to control their
lives completely
(E) The greater lung capacity of mountain
peoples that helps them live in oxygen-poor
air as against people's inability to fly
without special apparatus

27. It can be inferred that in his discussion of
maladaptive frailties the author assumes that
(A) evolution does not favor the emergence of
adaptive characteristics over the emergence
of maladaptive ones
(B) any structure or behavior not positively
adaptive is regarded as transitory in
evolutionary theory
(C) maladaptive characteristics, once fixed,
make the emergence of other maladaptive
characteristics more likely
(D) the designation of a characteristic as being
maladaptive must always remain highly
tentative
(E) changes in the total human environment can
outpace evolutionary change

PASSAGE 1
21. D 22. A 23. E 24. B 25. C 26. D 27.E
PASSAGE 2
24. A 25. D 26. E 27.E


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?12??

Passage 1
Some modern anthropologists hold that biological
evolution has shaped not only human morphology but
also human behavior. The role those anthropologists
ascribe to evolution is not of dictating the details of
human behavior but one of imposing constraints-
ways of feeling, thinking, and acting that "come natu-
rally" in archetypal situations in any culture. Our
"frailties" -emotions and motives such as rage, fear,
greed, gluttony, joy, lust, love-may be a very mixed
assortment, but they share at least one immediate
quality: we are, as we say, "in the grip" of them. And
thus they give us our sense of constraints.
Unhappily, some of those frailties-our need for
ever-increasing security among them-are presently
maladaptive. Yet beneath the overlay of cultural
detail, they, too, are said to be biological in direction,
and therefore as natural to us as are our appendixes.
We would need to comprehend thoroughly their adap-
adaptive origins in order to understand how badly they
guide us now. And we might then begin to resist their
pressure.

24. The primary purpose of the passage is to present
(A) a position on the foundations of human
behavior and on what those foundations
imply
(B) a theory outlining the parallel development
of human morphology and of human
behavior
(C) a diagnostic test for separating biologically
determined behavior patterns from
culture-specific detail
(D) a practical method for resisting the
pressures of biologically determined
drives
(E) an overview of those human emotions and
motives that impose constraints on
human behavior

25. The author implies that control to any extent
over the "frailties" that constrain our behavior is
thought to presuppose
(A) that those frailties are recognized as
currently beneficial and adaptive
(B) that there is little or no overlay of cultural
detail that masks their true nature
(C) that there are cultures in which those
frailties do not "come naturally" and from
which such control can be learned
(D) a full understanding of why those frailties
evolved and of how they function now
(E) a thorough grasp of the principle that
cultural detail in human behavior can
differ arbitrarily from society to society

26. Which of the following most probably provides
an appropriate analogy from human morphol-
ogy for the "details" versus "constraints"
distinction made in the passage in relation to
human behavior?
(A) The ability of most people to see all the
colors of the visible spectrum as against
most people's inability to name any but
the imary colors
(B) The ability of even the least fortunate
people to show compassion as against
people's inability to mask their feelings
completely
(C) The ability of some people to dive to great
depths as against most people's inability
to swim long distances
(D) The psychological profile of those people
who are able to delay gratification as
against people's inability to control their
lives completely
(E) The greater lung capacity of mountain
peoples that helps them live in oxygen-poor
air as against people's inability to fly
without special apparatus

27. It can be inferred that in his discussion of
maladaptive frailties the author assumes that
(A) evolution does not favor the emergence of
adaptive characteristics over the emergence
of maladaptive ones
(B) any structure or behavior not positively
adaptive is regarded as transitory in
evolutionary theory
(C) maladaptive characteristics, once fixed,
make the emergence of other maladaptive
characteristics more likely
(D) the designation of a characteristic as being
maladaptive must always remain highly
tentative
(E) changes in the total human environment can
outpace evolutionary change

Passage 2
Many theories have been formulated to explain the
role of grazers such as zooplankton in controlling the
amount of planktonic algae (phytoplankton) in lakes.
The first theories of such grazer control were merely
based on observations of negative correlations
between algal and zooplankton numbers. A low num-
ber of algal cells in the presence of a high number of
grazers suggested, but did not prove, that the grazers
had removed most of the algae. The converse obser-
vation, of the absence of grazers in areas of high
phytoplankton concentration, led Hardy to propose
his principle of animal exclusion, which hypothe-
sized that phytoplankton produced a repellent that
excluded grazers from regions of high phytoplankton
concentration. This was the first suggestion of algal
defenses against grazing.
Perhaps the fact that many of these first studies
considered only algae of a size that could be collected
in a net (net phytoplankton), a practice that over-
looked the smaller phytoplankton (nannoplankton)
that we now know grazers are most likely to feed on,
led to a de-emphasis of the role of grazers in subse-
quent research. Increasingly, as in the individual
studies of Lund, Round, and Reynolds, researchers
began to stress the importance of environmental
factors such as temperature, light, and water move-
ments in controlling algal numbers. These environ-
mental factors were amenable to field monitoring and
to simulation in the laboratory. Grazing was believed
to have some effect on algal numbers, especially after
phytoplankton growth rates declined at the end of
bloom periods, but grazing was considered a minor
component of models that predicted algal population
dynamics.
The potential magnitude of grazing pressure on
freshwater phytoplankton has only recently been
determined empirically. Studies by Hargrave and
Geen estimated natural community grazing rates by
measuring feeding rates of individual zooplankton
species in the laboratory and then computing com-
munity grazing rates for field conditions using the
known population density of grazers. The high esti-
mates of grazing pressure postulated by these
researchers were not fully accepted, however, until the
grazing rates of zooplankton were determined directly
in the field, by means of new experimental techniques.
Using a specially prepared feeding chamber, Haney
was able to record zooplankton grazing rates in
natural field conditions. In the periods of peak
zooplankton abundance, that is, in the late spring and
in the summer, Haney recorded maximum daily com-
munity grazing rates, for nutrient-poor lakes and bog
lakes, respectively, of 6.6 percent and 114 percent of
daily phytoplankton production. Cladocerans had
higher grazing rates than copepods, usually account-
ing for 80 percent of the community grazing rate.
These rates varied seasonally, reaching the lowest
point in the winter and early spring. Haney's thorough
research provides convincing field evidence that
grazers can exert significant pressure on phyto-
plankton population.

20. The author most likely mentions Hardy's
principle of animal exclusion in order to
(A) give an example of one theory about the
interaction of grazers and phytoplankton
(B) defend the first theory of algal defenses
against grazing
(C) support the contention that phytoplankton
numbers are controlled primarily by
environmental factors
(D) demonstrate the superiority of laboratory
studies of zooplankton feeding rates to other
kinds of studies of such rates
(E) refute researchers who believed that low
numbers of phytoplankton indicated the
grazing effect of low numbers of
zooplankton

21. It can be inferred from the passage that the
"first theories" of grazer control mentioned in
line 4 would have been more convincing if
researchers had been able to
(A) observe high phytoplankton numbers under
natural lake conditions
(B) discover negative correlations between
algae and zooplankton numbers from their
field research
(C) understand the central importance of
environmental factors in controlling the
growth rates of phytoplankton
(D) make verifiable correlations of cause and
effect between zooplankton and
phytoplankton numbers
(E) invent laboratory techniques that would
have allowed them to bypass their field
research concerning grazer control

22. Which of the following, if true, would call into
question Hardy's principle of animal
exclusion?
(A) Zooplankton are not the only organisms
that are affected by phytoplankton
repellents.
(B) Zooplankton exclusion is unrelated to
phytoplankton population density.
(C) Zooplankton population density is higher
during some parts of the year than during
others.
(D) Net phytoplankton are more likely to
exclude zooplankton than are
nannoplankton.
(E) Phytoplankton numbers can be strongly
affected by environmetnal factors.

23. The author would be likely to agree with
which of the following statements regarding
the pressure of grazers on phytoplankton
numbers?
I. Grazing pressure can vary according to
the individual type of zooplankton.
II. Grazing pressure can be lower in nutrient-
poor lakes than in bog lakes.
III. Grazing tends to exert about the same
pressure as does temperature.
(A) I only (B) III only (C) I and II only
(D) II and III only (E) I, II, and III

24. The passage supplies information to indicate
that Hargrave and Geen's conclusion regarding
the grazing pressure exerted by zooplankton on
phytoplankton numbers was most similar to the
conclusion regarding grazing pressure reached
by which of the following researchers?
(A) Hardy (B) Lund (C) Round
(D) Reynolds (E) Haney

25. It can be inferred from the passage that one way
in which many of the early researchers on grazer
control could have improved their data would
have been to
(A) emphasize the effects of temperature, rather
than of light, on phytoplankton
(B) disregard nannoplankton in their analysis of
phytoplankton numbers
(C) collect phytoplankton of all sizes before
analyzing the extent of phytoplankton
concentration
(D) recognize that phytoplankton other than net
phytoplankton could be collected in a net
(E) understand the crucial significance of net
phytoplankton in the diet of zooplankton

26. According to the passage, Hargrave and Geen
did which of the following in their experiments?
(A) They compared the grazing rates of
individual zooplankton species in the
laboratory with the natural grazing rates
of these species.
(B) The hypothesized about the population
density of grazers in natural habitats by
using data concerning the population
density of grazers in the laboratory.
(C) They estimated the community grazing rates
of zooplankton in the laboratory by using
data concerning the natural community
grazing rates of zooplankton.
(D) They estimated the natural community
grazing rates of zooplankton by using
data concerning the known population
density of phytoplankton.
(E) They estimated the natural community
grazing rates of zooplankton by using
laboratory data concerning the grazing
rates of individual zooplankton species.
27. Which of the following is a true statement about
the zooplankton numbers and zooplankton
grazing rates observed in Haney's experiments?
(A) While zooplankton numbers began to
decline in August, zooplankton grazing
rates began to increase.
(B) Although zooplankton numbers were high
in May, grazing rates did not become
high until January.
(C) Both zooplankton numbers and grazing
rates were higher in December than in
November.
(D) Both zooplankton numbers and grazing
rates were lower in March than in June.
(E) Both zooplankton numbers and grazing
rates were highest in February.

key:
passage 1: ADEE
passage 2: ADBCE CED


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?13??

Passage 1

Many theories have been formulated to explain the
role of grazers such as zooplankton in controlling the
amount of planktonic algae (phytoplankton) in lakes.
The first theories of such grazer control were merely
based on observations of negative correlations
between algal and zooplankton numbers. A low num-
ber of algal cells in the presence of a high number of
grazers suggested, but did not prove, that the grazers
had removed most of the algae. The converse obser-
vation, of the absence of grazers in areas of high
phytoplankton concentration, led Hardy to propose
his principle of animal exclusion, which hypothe-
sized that phytoplankton produced a repellent that
excluded grazers from regions of high phytoplankton
concentration. This was the first suggestion of algal
defenses against grazing.
Perhaps the fact that many of these first studies
considered only algae of a size that could be collected
in a net (net phytoplankton), a practice that over-
looked the smaller phytoplankton (nannoplankton)
that we now know grazers are most likely to feed on,
led to a de-emphasis of the role of grazers in subse-
quent research. Increasingly, as in the individual
studies of Lund, Round, and Reynolds, researchers
began to stress the importance of environmental
factors such as temperature, light, and water move-
ments in controlling algal numbers. These environ-
mental factors were amenable to field monitoring and
to simulation in the laboratory. Grazing was believed
to have some effect on algal numbers, especially after
phytoplankton growth rates declined at the end of
bloom periods, but grazing was considered a minor
component of models that predicted algal population
dynamics.
The potential magnitude of grazing pressure on
freshwater phytoplankton has only recently been
determined empirically. Studies by Hargrave and
Geen estimated natural community grazing rates by
measuring feeding rates of individual zooplankton
species in the laboratory and then computing com-
munity grazing rates for field conditions using the
known population density of grazers. The high esti-
mates of grazing pressure postulated by these
researchers were not fully accepted, however, until the
grazing rates of zooplankton were determined directly
in the field, by means of new experimental techniques.
Using a specially prepared feeding chamber, Haney
was able to record zooplankton grazing rates in
natural field conditions. In the periods of peak
zooplankton abundance, that is, in the late spring and
in the summer, Haney recorded maximum daily com-
munity grazing rates, for nutrient-poor lakes and bog
lakes, respectively, of 6.6 percent and 114 percent of
daily phytoplankton production. Cladocerans had
higher grazing rates than copepods, usually account-
ing for 80 percent of the community grazing rate.
These rates varied seasonally, reaching the lowest
point in the winter and early spring. Haney's thorough
research provides convincing field evidence that
grazers can exert significant pressure on phyto-
plankton population.

23. The author would be likely to agree with
which of the following statements regarding
the pressure of grazers on phytoplankton
numbers?
I. Grazing pressure can vary according to
the individual type of zooplankton.
II. Grazing pressure can be lower in nutrient-
poor lakes than in bog lakes.
III. Grazing tends to exert about the same
pressure as does temperature.
(A) I only (B) III only (C) I and II only
(D) II and III only (E) I, II, and III

24. The passage supplies information to indicate
that Hargrave and Geen's conclusion regarding
the grazing pressure exerted by zooplankton on
phytoplankton numbers was most similar to the
conclusion regarding grazing pressure reached
by which of the following researchers?
(A) Hardy (B) Lund
(C) Round (D) Reynolds (E) Haney

25. It can be inferred from the passage that one way
in which many of the early researchers on grazer
control could have improved their data would
have been to
(A) emphasize the effects of temperature, rather
than of light, on phytoplankton
(B) disregard nannoplankton in their analysis of
phytoplankton numbers
(C) collect phytoplankton of all sizes before
analyzing the extent of phytoplankton
concentration
(D) recognize that phytoplankton other than net
phytoplankton could be collected in a net
(E) understand the crucial significance of net
phytoplankton in the diet of zooplankton

26. According to the passage, Hargrave and Geen
did which of the following in their experiments?
(A) They compared the grazing rates of
individual zooplankton species in the
laboratory with the natural grazing rates
of these species.
(B) The hypothesized about the population
density of grazers in natural habitats by
using data concerning the population
density of grazers in the laboratory.
(C) They estimated the community grazing rates
of zooplankton in the laboratory by using
data concerning the natural community
grazing rates of zooplankton.
(D) They estimated the natural community
grazing rates of zooplankton by using
data concerning the known population
density of phytoplankton.
(E) They estimated the natural community
grazing rates of zooplankton by using
laboratory data concerning the grazing
rates of individual zooplankton species.

27. Which of the following is a true statement about
the zooplankton numbers and zooplankton
grazing rates observed in Haney's experiments?
(A) While zooplankton numbers began to
decline in August, zooplankton grazing
rates began to increase.
(B) Although zooplankton numbers were high
in May, grazing rates did not become
high until January.
(C) Both zooplankton numbers and grazing
rates were higher in December than in
November.
(D) Both zooplankton numbers and grazing
rates were lower in March than in June.
(E) Both zooplankton numbers and grazing
rates were highest in February.


passage2
Until about five years ago, the very idea that peptide
hormones might be made anywhere in the brain besides
the hypothalamus was astounding. Peptide hormones,
scientists thought, were made by endocrine glands and
(5)the hypothalamus was thought to be the brains' only
endocrine gland. What is more, because peptide hor-
mones cannot cross the blood-brain barrier, researchers
believed that they never got to any part of the brain
other than the hypothalamus, where they were simply
(10)produced and then released into the bloodstream.
But these beliefs about peptide hormones were ques-
tioned as laboratory after laboratory found that anti-
serums to peptide hormones, when injected into the
brain, bind in places other than the hypothalamus, indi-
(15)cating that either the hormones or substances that cross-
react with the antiserums are present. The immunolog-
ical method of detecting peptide hormones by means
of antiserums, however, is imprecise. Cross-reactions
are possible and this method cannot determine whether
(20)the substances detected by the antiserums really are the
hormones, or merely close relatives. Furthermore, this
method cannot be used to determine the location in
the body where the detected substances are actually
produced.
(25) New techniques of molecular biology, however, pro-
vide a way to answer these questions. It is possible to
make specific complementary DNA's (cDNA's) that
can serve as molecular probes to seek out the messenger
RNA's (mRNA's) of the peptide hormones.If brain cells
(30)are making the hormones, the cells will contain these
mRNA's. If the products the brain cells make resemble
the hormones but are not identical to them, then the
cDNA's should still bind to these mRNA's, but should
not bind as tightly as they would to mRNA's for the
(35)true hormones. The cells containing these mRNA's can
then be isolated and their mRNA's decoded to deter-
mine just what their protein products are and how
closely the products resemble the true peptide hor-
mones.
(40) The molecular approach to detecting peptide hor-
mones using cDNA probes should also be much faster
than the immunological method because it can take
years of tedious purifications to isolate peptide hor-
mones and then develop antiserums to them. Roberts,
(45)expressing the sentiment of many researchers, states:
"I was trained as an endocrinologist. But it became
clear to me that the field of endocrinology needed
molecular biology input. The process of grinding
out protein purifications is just too slow."
(50) If, as the initial tests with cDNA probes suggest,
peptide hormones really are made in the brain in areas
other than the hypothalamus, a theory must be devel-
oped that explains their function in the brain. Some
have suggested that the hormones are all growth regula-
(55)tors, but Rosen's work on rat brains indicates that this
cannot be true. A number of other researchers propose
that they might be used for intercellular communication
in the brain.
21. Which of the following titles best summarizes the
passage?
(A) Is Molecular Biology the Key to Understanding
Intercellular Communication in the Brain?
(B) Molecular Biology: Can Researchers Exploit
Its Techniques to Synthesize Peptide
Hormones?
(C) The Advantages and Disadvantages of the
Immunological Approach to Detecting
Peptide Hormones
(D) Peptide Hormones: How Scientists Are
Attempting to Solve Problems of Their
Detection and to Understand Their Function
(E) Peptide Hormones: The Role Played by
Messenger RNA's in Their Detection
22. The passage suggests that a substance detected in the
brain by use of antiserums to peptide hormones may
(A) have been stored in the brain for a long period
of time
(B) play no role in the functioning of the brain
(C) have been produced in some part of the body
other than the brain
(D) have escaped detection by molecular methods
(E) play an important role in the functioning of the
hypothalamus

23. According to the passage, confirmation of the belief
that peptide hormones are made in the brain in
areas other than the hypothalamus would force
scientists to
(A) reject the theory that peptide hormones are
made by endocrine glands
(B) revise their beliefs about the ability of anti-
serums to detect peptide hormones
(C) invent techniques that would allow them to
locate accurately brain cells that produce
peptide hormones
(D) search for techniques that would enable them to
distinguish peptide hormones from their
close relatives
(E) develop a theory that explains the role played
by peptide hormones in the brain

24. Which of the following is mentioned in the passage
as a drawback of the immunological method of
detecting peptide hormones?
(A) It cannot be used to detect the presence of
growth regulators in the brain.
(B) It cannot distinguish between the peptide
hormones and substances that are very
similar to them.
(C) It uses antiserums that are unable to cross
the blood-brain barrier.
(D) It involves a purification process that requires
extensive training in endocrinology.
(E) It involves injecting foreign substances directly
into the bloodstream.
25. The passage implies that, in doing research on rat
brains, Rosen discovered that
(A) peptide hormones are used for intercellular
communication
(B) complementary DNA's do not bind to cells
producing peptide hormones
(C) products closely resembling peptide hormones
are not identical to peptide hormones
(D) some peptide hormones do not function as
growth regulators
(E) antiserums cross-react with substances that
are not peptide hormones

26. Which of the following is a way in which the
immunological method of detecting peptide
hormones differs from the molecular method?
(A) The immunological method uses substances
that react with products of hormone-
producing cells, whereas the molecular
method uses substances that react with a
specific component of the cells themselves.
(B) The immunological method has produced
results consistent with long-held beliefs
about peptide hormones, whereas the
molecular method has produced results
that upset these beliefs.
(C) The immunological method requires a great
deal of expertise, whereas the molecular
method has been used successfully by
nonspecialists.
(D) The immunological method can only be used
to test for the presence of peptide hormones
within the hypothalamus, whereas the molec-
ular method can be used throughout the brain.
(E) The immunological method uses probes
that can only bind with peptide hormones,
whereas the molecular method uses probes
that bind with peptide hormones and sub-
stances similar to them.

27. The idea that the field of endocrinology can gain
from developments in molecular biology is regarded
by Roberts with
(A) incredulity
(B) derision
(C) indifference
(D) pride
(E) enthusiasm

Passage3.
Ragtime is a musical form that synthesizes folk
melodies and musical techniques into a brief quadrille-
like structure, designed to be played-exactly as
written-on the piano. A strong analogy exists between
(5) European composers like Ralph Vaughan Williams,
Edvard Grieg, and Anton Dvorak who combined folk
tunes and their own original materials in larger composi-
tions and the pioneer ragtime composers in the United
States. Composers like Scott Joplin and James Scott
(10)were in a sense collectors or musicologists, collecting
dance and folk music in Black communities and
consciously shaping it into brief suites or anthologies
called piano rags.
It has sometimes been charged that ragtime is
(15)mechanical. For instance, Wilfred Mellers comments,
"rags were transferred to the pianola roll and, even if
not played by a machine, should be played like a
machine, with meticulous precision." However, there is
no reason to assume that ragtime is inherently mechan-
(20)ical simply because commercial manufacturers applied a
mechanical recording method to ragtime, the only way
to record pianos at that date. Ragtime's is not a mechan-
ical precision, and it is not precision limited to the style
of performance. It arises from ragtime's following a well-
(25)defined form and obeying simple rules within that form.
The classic formula for the piano rag disposes three
to five themes in sixteen-bar strains, often organized
with repeats. The rag opens with a bright, memorable
strain or theme, followed by a similar theme, leading to
(30)a trio of marked lyrical character, with the structure
concluded by a lyrical strain that parallels the rhythmic
developments of the earlier themes. The aim of the struc-
ture is to rise from one theme to another in a stair-step
manner, ending on a note of triumph or exhilaration.
(35)Typically, each strain is divided into two 8-bar segments
that are essentially alike, so the rhythmic-melodic unit of
ragtime is only eight bars of 2/4 measure. Therefore,
themes must be brief with clear, sharp melodic figures.
Not concerned with development of musical themes, the
(40)ragtime composer instead sets a theme down intact, in
finished form, and links it to various related themes.
Tension in ragtime compositions arises from a polarity
between two basic ingredients: a continuous bass-
called by jazz musicians a boom-chick bass-in the
(45)pianist's left hand, and its melodic, syncopated counter-
part in the right hand.
Ragtime remains distinct from jazz both as an instru-
mental style and as a genre. Ragtime style stresses a
pattern of repeated rhythms, not the constant inventions
(50)and variations of jazz. As a genre, ragtime requires strict
attention to structure, not inventiveness or virtuosity. It
exists as a tradition, a set of conventions, a body of
written scores, separate from the individual players asso-
ciated with it. In this sense ragtime is more akin to folk
music of the nineteenth century than to jazz.
17. Which of the following best describes the main
purpose of the passage?
(A) To contrast ragtime music and jazz
(B) To acknowledge and counter significant adverse
criticisms of ragtime music
(C) To define ragtime music as an art form and
describe its structural characteristics
(D) To review the history of ragtime music and
analyze ragtime's effect on listeners
(E) To explore the similarities between ragtime
music and certain European musical
compositions

18. According to the passage, each of the following is a
characteristic of ragtime compositions that follow
the classic ragtime formula EXCEPT
(A) syncopation
(B) well-defined melodic figures
(C) rising rhythmic-melodic intensity
(D) full development of musical themes
(E) a bass line distinct from the melodic line

19. According to the passage, Ralph Vaughan Williams,
Anton Dvorak, and Scott Joplin are similar in that
they all
(A) conducted research into musicological history
(B) wrote original compositions based on folk tunes
(C) collected and recorded abbreviated piano suites
(D) created intricate sonata-like musical structures
(E) explored the relations between Black music and
continental folk music

Keys:
Passage 1: ADBCE CED
Passage 2: DCEBD AE
Passage 3: CDB



   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?14??

PASSAGE 1
Ragtime is a musical form that synthesizes folk
melodies and musical techniques into a brief quadrille-
like structure, designed to be played-exactly as
written-on the piano. A strong analogy exists between
(5) European composers like Ralph Vaughan Williams,
Edvard Grieg, and Anton Dvorak who combined folk
tunes and their own original materials in larger composi-
tions and the pioneer ragtime composers in the United
States. Composers like Scott Joplin and James Scott
(10)were in a sense collectors or musicologists, collecting
dance and folk music in Black communities and
consciously shaping it into brief suites or anthologies
called piano rags.
It has sometimes been charged that ragtime is
(15)mechanical. For instance, Wilfred Mellers comments,
"rags were transferred to the pianola roll and, even if
not played by a machine, should be played like a
machine, with meticulous precision." However, there is
no reason to assume that ragtime is inherently mechan-
(20)ical simply because commercial manufacturers applied a
mechanical recording method to ragtime, the only way
to record pianos at that date. Ragtime's is not a mechan-
ical precision, and it is not precision limited to the style
of performance. It arises from ragtime's following a well-
(25)defined form and obeying simple rules within that form.
The classic formula for the piano rag disposes three
to five themes in sixteen-bar strains, often organized
with repeats. The rag opens with a bright, memorable
strain or theme, followed by a similar theme, leading to
(30)a trio of marked lyrical character, with the structure
concluded by a lyrical strain that parallels the rhythmic
developments of the earlier themes. The aim of the struc-
ture is to rise from one theme to another in a stair-step
manner, ending on a note of triumph or exhilaration.
(35)Typically, each strain is divided into two 8-bar segments
that are essentially alike, so the rhythmic-melodic unit of
ragtime is only eight bars of 2/4 measure. Therefore,
themes must be brief with clear, sharp melodic figures.
Not concerned with development of musical themes, the
(40)ragtime composer instead sets a theme down intact, in
finished form, and links it to various related themes.
Tension in ragtime compositions arises from a polarity
between two basic ingredients: a continuous bass-
called by jazz musicians a boom-chick bass-in the
(45)pianist's left hand, and its melodic, syncopated counter-
part in the right hand.
Ragtime remains distinct from jazz both as an instru-
mental style and as a genre. Ragtime style stresses a
pattern of repeated rhythms, not the constant inventions
(50)and variations of jazz. As a genre, ragtime requires strict
attention to structure, not inventiveness or virtuosity. It
exists as a tradition, a set of conventions, a body of
written scores, separate from the individual players asso-
ciated with it. In this sense ragtime is more akin to folk
music of the nineteenth century than to jazz.

17. Which of the following best describes the main
purpose of the passage?
(A) To contrast ragtime music and jazz
(B) To acknowledge and counter significant adverse
criticisms of ragtime music
(C) To define ragtime music as an art form and
describe its structural characteristics
(D) To review the history of ragtime music and
analyze ragtime's effect on listeners
(E) To explore the similarities between ragtime
music and certain European musical
compositions

18. According to the passage, each of the following is a
characteristic of ragtime compositions that follow
the classic ragtime formula EXCEPT
(A) syncopation
(B) well-defined melodic figures
(C) rising rhythmic-melodic intensity
(D) full development of musical themes
(E) a bass line distinct from the melodic line

19. According to the passage, Ralph Vaughan Williams,
Anton Dvorak, and Scott Joplin are similar in that
they all
(A) conducted research into musicological history
(B) wrote original compositions based on folk tunes
(C) collected and recorded abbreviated piano suites
(D) created intricate sonata-like musical structures
(E) explored the relations between Black music and
continental folk music

20. The author rejects the argument that ragtime is a
mechanical music because that argument
(A) overlooks the precision required of the ragtime
player
(B) does not accurately describe the sound of
ragtime pianola music
(C) confuses the means of recording and the essen-
tial character of the music
(D) exaggerates the influence of the performance
style of professional ragtime players on the
reputation of the genre
(E) improperly identifies commercial ragtime music
with the subtler classic ragtime style

21. It can be inferred that the author of the passage
believes that the most important feature of ragtime
music is its
(A) commercial success
(B) formal structure
(C) emotional range
(D) improvisational opportunities
(E) role as a forerunner of jazz

22. It can be inferred from the passage that the essential
nature of ragtime has been obscured by commentaries based on
(A) the way ragtime music was first recorded
(B) interpretations of ragtime by jazz musicians
(C) the dance fashions that were contemporary with
ragtime
(D) early reviewers' accounts of characteristic
structure
(E) the musical sources used by Scott Joplin and
James Scott

23. Which of the following is most nearly analogous in
source and artistic character to a ragtime composi-
tion as described in the passage?
(A) Symphonic music derived from complex jazz
motifs
(B) An experimental novel based on well-known
cartoon characters
(C) A dramatic production in which actors invent
scenes and improvise lines
(D) A ballet whose disciplined choreography is
based on folk-dance steps
(E) A painting whose abstract shapes evoke
familiar objects in a natural landscape


KEY: CDBCB AD






