   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?1??

Passage 1

A mysterious phenomenon is the ability of over-water migrants to travel on course. Birds, bees, and other species can keep track of time without any sensory cues from the outside world, and such "biological clocks" clearly contribute to their "compass sense." For example, they can use the position of the Sun or stars, along with the time of day, to find north. (But compass sense alone cannot explain how birds navigate the ocean: after a flock traveling east is blown far south by a storm, it will assume the proper northeasterly course to compensate). Perhaps, some scientists thought, migrants determine their geographic position on Earth by celestial navigation, almost as human navigators use stars and planets, but this would demand of the animals (a fantastic map sense). Researchers now know that some species have a magnetic sense, which might allow migrants to determine their geographic location by detecting variations in the strength of the Earth's magnetic field.

1. The main idea of the passage is that
(A) migration over land requires a simpler explanation than migration over water does
(B) the means by which animals migrate over water are complex and only partly understood
(C) the ability of migrant animals to keep track of time is related to their magnetic sense
(D) knowledge of geographic location is essential to migrants with little or no compass sense
(E) explanations of how animals migrate tend to replace, rather than build on, one another

2. It can be inferred from the passage that if the flock of birds described in lines 8-12 were
navigating by compass sense alone, they would, after the storm, fly
(A) east
(B) north
(C) northwest
(D) south
(E) southeast

3. In maintaining that migrating animals would need "a fantastic map sense" (line 17) to determine their geographic position by celestial navigation, the author intends to express
(A) admiration for the ability of the migrants
(B) skepticism about celestial navigation as an explanation
(C) certainly that the phenomenon of migration will remain mysterious
(D) interest in a new method of accounting for over-water migration
(E) surprise that animals apparently navigate in much the same way that human beings do

4. Of the following descriptions of migrating animals, which most strongly suggests that the animals are depending on magnetic cues to orient themselves?
(A) Pigeons can properly readjust their course even when flying long distances through
exceedingly dense fogs.
(B) Bison are able to reach their destination by passing through a landscape that has been
partially altered by a recent fire.
(C) Elephants are able to find grounds that some members of the herd have never seen before.
(D) Swallows are able to return to a given spot at the same time every year.
(E) Monarch butterflies coming from different parts of North America are able to arrive at the same location each winter.

??: BABA


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?2??

????:
Perhaps the fact that many of these first studies considered only algae of a size that could be collected in a net, a prastice that overlooked the smaller phyto-plankton that we now know grazers are most likely to feed on, led to a de-emphasis of the role of grazers in subsequent research.

(Perhaps) the fact {that many (of these first studies) considered (only) algae [of a size (that could be collected in a net)], a prastice [that overlooked the (smaller) phytoplankton (that we now know grazers are most likely to feed on)]},led to a deemphasis [of the role (of grazers)] [in (subsequent) research].


Passage 1
The historian Frederick J. Turner wrote in the 1890's that the agrarian discontent that had been developing steadily in the United States since about 1870 had been precipitated by the closing of the internal frontier--that is, the depletion of available new land needed for further expansion of the American farming system. Not only was Turner's thesis influential at the time, it was later adopted and elaborated by other scholars, such as John D. Hicks in The Populist Revolt (1931). (Actually, however, new lands were taken up for farming in the United States throughout and beyond the nineteenth century. In the 1890's, when agrarian discontent had become most acute, 1,100,000 new farms were settled, which was 500,000 more than had been settled during the previous decade. After 1890, under the terms of the Homestead Act and its successors, more new land was taken up for farming than had been taken up for this purpose in the United States up until that time. It is true that a high proportion of the newly farmed land was suitable only for grazing and dry farming, but agricultural practices had become sufficiently advanced to make it possible to increase the profitability of farming by utilizing even these relatively barren lands).
The emphasis given by both scholars and statesmen to the presumed disappearance of the American frontier helped to obscure the great importance of changes in the conditions and consequences of international trade that occurred during the second half of the nineteenth century. In 1869 the Suez Canal was opened and the first transcontinental railroad in the United States was completed. An extensive network of telegraph and telephone communications was spun: Europe was connected by submarine cable with the United States in 1866 and with South America in 1874. By about 1870 improvements in agricultural technology made possible the full exploitation of areas that were most suitable for extensive farming on a mechanized basis. Huge tracts of land were being settled and farmed in Argentina, Australia, Canada, and in the American West, and these areas were joined with one another and with the countries of Europe into an interdependent market system.
As a consequence, agrarian depressions no longer were local or national in scope, and they struck several nations whose internal frontiers had not vanished or were not about to vanish. Between the early 1870's and the 1890's, the mounting agrarian discontent in America paralleled the almost uninterrupted decline in the prices of American agricultural products on foreign markets. Those staple-growing farmers in the United States who exhibited the greatest discontent were those who had become most dependent on foreign markets for the sale of their products. Insofar as Americans had been deterred from taking up new land for farming, it was because market conditions had made this period a perilous time in which to do so.

1. The author is primarily concerned with
(A) showing that a certain interpretation is better supported by the evidence than is an alternative explanation
(B) developing an alternative interpretation by using sources of evidence that formerly had been unavailable
(C) questioning the accuracy of the evidence that most scholars have used to counter the author's own interpretation
(D) reviewing the evidence that formerly had been thought to obscure a valid interpretation
(E) presenting evidence in support of a controversial version of an earlier interpretation.

2. According to the author, changes in the conditions of international trade resulted in an
(A) underestimation of the amount of new land that was being famed in the United States
(B) underutilization of relatively small but rich plots of land
(C) overexpansion of the world transportation network for shipping agricultural products
(D) extension of agrarian depressions beyond national boundaries
(E) emphasis on the importance of market forces in determining the prices of agricultural products

3. The author implies that the change in the state of the American farmer's morale during the latter part of the nineteenth century was traceable to the American farmer's increasing perception that the
(A) costs of cultivating the land were prohibitive within the United States
(B) development of the first transcontinental railroad in the United States occurred at the expense of the American farmer
(C) American farming system was about to run out of the new farmland that was required for its expansion.
(D) prices of American agricultural products were deteriorating especially rapidly on domestic markets
(E) proceeds from the sales of American agricultural products on foreign markets were unsatisfactory

4. According to the passage, which of the following occurred prior to 1890?
(A) Frederick J. Turner's thesis regarding the American frontier became influential.
(B) The Homestead Act led to an increase in the amount of newly farmed land in the United States.
(C) The manufacturers of technologically advanced agricultural machinery rapidly increased their marketing efforts.
(D) Direct lines of communication were constructed between the United States and South America.
(E) Technological advances made it fruitful to farm extensively on a mechanized basis.

5. The author implies that, after certain territories and countries had been joined into an interdependent market system in the nineteenth century, agrarian depressions within that system
(A) spread to several nations, excluding those in which the internal frontier remained open
(B) manifested themselves in several nations, including those in which new land remained available for farming
(C) slowed down the pace of new technological developments in international communications and transportation
(D) affected the local and national prices of the nonagricultural products of several nations
(E) encouraged several nations to sell more of their agricultural products on foreign markets

6. The author provides information concerning newly farmed lands in the United States (lines 11-27) as evidence in direct support of which of the following?
(A) A proposal by Frederick J. Turner that was later disputed by John D. Hicks
(B) An elaboration by John D. Hicks of a thesis that formerly had been questioned by Frederick J. Turner
(C) The established view that was disputed by those scholars who adopted the thesis of Frederick J. Turner
(D) The thesis that important changes occurred in the nature of international trade during the second half of the nineteenth century
(E) The view that the American frontier did not become closed during the nineteenth century or soon thereafter

7. The author implies that the cause of the agrarian discontent was
(A) masked by the vagueness of the official records on newly settled farms
(B) overshadowed by disputes on the reliability of the existing historical evidence
(C) misidentified as a result of influential but erroneous theorizing
(D) overlooked because of a preoccupation with market conditions
(E) undetected because visible indications of the cause occurred so gradually and sporadically

8. The author's argument implies that, compared to the yearly price changes that actually occurred on foreign agricultural markets during the 1880's, American farmers would have most preferred yearly price changes that were
(A) much smaller and in the same direction
(B) much smaller but in the opposite direction
(C) slightly smaller and in the same direction
(D) similar in size but in the opposite direction
(E) slightly greater and in the same direction


??:
ADEEB ECD


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?3??

Passage1
Traditionally, pollination by wind has been viewed as a reproductive process marked by random events in which the vagaries of the wind are compensated for by the generation of vast quantities of pollen, so that the ultimate production of new seeds is assured at the expense of producing much more pollen than is actually used. Because the potential hazards pollen grains are subject to as they are transported over long distances are enormous, windpollinated plants have, in the view above, compensated for the ensuing loss of pollen through happenstance by virtue of producing an amount of pollen that is one to three orders of magnitude greater than the amount produced by species pollinated by insects.
However, a number of features that are characteristic of wind-pollinated plants reduce pollen waste. (For example, many wind-pollinated species fail to release pollen when wind speeds are low or when humid conditions prevail. Recent studies suggest another way in which species compensate for the inefficiency of windpollination.) These studies suggest that species frequently take advantage of the physics of pollen motion by generating specific (aerodynamic environments) within the immediate vicinity of their female reproductive organs. It is the morphology of these organs that dictates the pattern of airflow disturbances through which pollen must travel. The speed and direction of the airflow disturbances can combine with the physical properties of a species' pollen to produce a species-specific pattern of pollen collision on the surfaces of female reproductive organs. Provided that these surfaces are strategically located, the consequences of this combination can significantly increase the pollen-capture efficiency of a female reproductive organ.
A critical question that remains to be answered is whether the morphological attributes of the female reproductive organs of wind-pollinated species are evolutionary adaptations to wind pollination or are merely fortuitous. A complete resolution of the question is as yet impossible since adaptation must be evaluated for each species within its own unique functional context. However, it must be said that, while evidence of such evolutionary adaptations does exist in some species, one must be careful about attributing morphology to adaptation. For example, the spiral arrangement of scale-bract complexes on ovule-bearing pine cones, where the female reproductive organs of conifers are located, is important to the production of airflow patterns that spiral over the cone's surfaces, thereby passing airborne pollen from one scale to the next. However, these patterns cannot be viewed as an adaptation to wind pollination because the spiral arrangement occurs in a number of non-wind-pollinated plant lineages and is regarded as a characteristic of vascular plants, of which conifers are only one kind, as a whole. Therefore, the spiral arrangement is not likely to be the result of a direct adaptation to wind pollination.

1.The author of the passage is primarily concerned with discussing
(A) the current debate on whether the morphological attributes of wind-pollinated plants are evolutionary adaptations
(B) the kinds of airflow patterns that permit wind-pollinated plants to capture pollen most efficiently
(C) the ways in which the reproductive processes of wind-pollinated plants are controlled by random events
(D) a recently proposed explanation of a way in which wind-pollinated plants reduce pollen waste
(E) a specific morphological attribute that permits one species of wind-pollinated plant to capture pollen

2. The author suggests that explanations of wind pollination that emphasize the production of vast quantities of pollen to compensate for the randomness of the pollination process are
(A) debatable and misleading
(B) ingenious and convincing
(C) accurate but incomplete
(D) intriguing but controversial
(E) plausible but unverifiable

3. According to the passage, the "aerodynamic environments" mentioned in line 23, when they are produced, are primarily determined by the
(A) presence of insects near the plant
(B) physical properties of the plant's pollen
(C) shape of the plant's female reproductive organs
(D) amount of pollen generated by the plant
(E) number of seeds produced by the plant

4. According to the passage, true statements about the release of pollen by wind-pollinated plants include which of the following?
I. The release can be affected by certain environmental factors.
II. The amount of pollen released increases on a rainy day.
III. Pollen is sometimes not released by plants when there is little wind.
(A) II only
(B) III only
(C) I and II only
(D) I and III only
(E) I, II, and III

5. The passage suggests that the recent studies cited in lines 19-21 have not done which of the following?
(A) Made any distinctions between different species of wind-pollinated plants.
(B) Considered the physical properties of the pollen that is produced by wind-pollinated plants.
(C) Indicated the general range within which plant- generated airflow disturbances are apt to occur.
(D) Included investigations of the physics of pollen motion and its relationship to the efficient capture of pollen by the female reproductive organs of wind-pollinated plants.
(E) Demonstrated that the morphological attributes of the female reproductive organs of wind-pollinated plants are usually evolutionary adaptations to wind pollination.

6. It can be inferred from the passage that the claim that the spiral arrangement of scale-bract complexes on an ovule-bearing pine cone is an adaptation to wind-pollination would be more convincing if which of the following were true?
(A) Such an arrangement occurred only in wind-pollinated plants.
(B) Such an arrangement occurred in vascular plants as a whole.
(C) Such an arrangement could be shown to be beneficial to pollen release.
(D) The number of bracts could be shown to have increased over time.
(E) The airflow patterns over the cone's surfaces could be shown to be produced by such arrangements.

7. Which of the following, if known, is likely to have been the kind of evidence used to support the view described in the first paragraph?
(A) Wind speeds need not be very low for wind-pollinated plants to fail to release pollen.
(B) The female reproductive organs of plants often have a sticky surface that allows them to trap airborne pollen systematically.
(C) Grasses, as well as conifers, generate specific aerodynamic environments within the immediate vicinity of their reproductive organs.
(D) Rain showers often wash airborne pollen out of the air before it ever reaches an appropriate plant.
(E) The density and size of an airborne pollen grain are of equal importance in determining whether that grain will be captured by a plant.


Passage 2
Scholars often fail to see that music played an important role in the preservation of African culture in the United States. They correctly note that slavery stripped some cultural elements from Black people-their political and economic systems-but they underestimate the significance of music in sustaining other African cultural values. African music, unlike the music of some other cultures, was based on a total vision of life in which music was not an (isolated social domain). In African culture music was pervasive, serving not only religion, but all phases of life, including birth, death, work, and play. The methods that a community devises to perpetuate itself come into being to preserve aspects of the cultural legacy that that community perceives as essential. Music, like art in general, was so inextricably a part of African culture that it became a crucial means of preserving the culture during and after the dislocations of slavery.

8. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) analyze the impact that slavery had on African political and economic systems
(B) review the attempt of recent scholarship to study the influence of African music on other music
(C) correct the failure of some scholars to appreciate the significance of music in African culture
(D) survey the ways by which people attempt to preserve their culture against the effects of oppression
(E) compare the relative importance of music with that of other art forms in culture

9. In line 9, the phrase "isolated social domain" refers to
(A) African music in relation to contemporary culture as a whole
(B) music as it may be perceived in non-African cultures
(C) a feature of African music that aided in transmitting African cultural values
(D) an aspect of the African cultural legacy
(E) the influence of music on contemporary culture

10. Which of the following statements concerning the function of African music can be inferred from the passage?
(A) It preserved cultural values because it was thoroughly integrated into the lives of the people.
(B) It was more important in the development of African religious life than in other areas of culture.
(C) It was developed in response to the loss of political and economic systems.
(D) Its pervasiveness in African culture hindered its effectiveness in minimizing the impact of slavery.
(E) Its isolation from the economic domains of life enabled it to survive the destructive impact of slavery.

11. According to the author, scholars would err in drawing which of the following conclusions?
I. Slavery stripped the slaves of their political and economic systems.
II. African music was similar to all other traditions of music in that it originated in a total vision of life.
III. Music was a crucial part of the African cultural legacy.
(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) I and II only
(D) II and III only
(E) I, II, and III


??:
DCCDE ADCBA B


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?4??

Passage 1:
Geologists have long known that the Earth's mantle is heterogeneous, but its spatial arrangement remains unresolved is the mantle essentially layered or irregularly heterogeneous? The best evidence for the layered-mantle thesis is the well-established fact that volcanic rocks found on oceanic islands, islands believed to result from mantle plumes arising from the lower mantle, are composed of material fundamentally different from that of the mid-ocean ridge system, whose source, most geologists contend, is the upper mantle.
Some geologists, however, on the basis of observations concerning mantle xenoliths, argue that the mantle is not layered, but that heterogeneity is created by fluids rich in “incompatible elements” (elements tending toward liquid rather than solid state) percolating upward and transforming portions of the upper mantle irregularly, according to the vagaries of the fluids' pathways. We believe, perhaps unimaginatively, that this ebate can be resolved through further study, and that the under explored mid-ocean ridge system is the key.

1. Which of the following best expresses the main idea of the passage?
(A) Current theories regarding the structure of the Earth's mantle cannot account for new discoveries regarding the composition of mantle xenoliths.
(B) There are conflicting hypotheses about the heterogeneity of the Earth's mantle because few mantle elements have been thoroughly studied.
(C) Further research is needed to resolve the debate among geologists over the composition of the mid-ocean ridge system.
(D) There is clear-cut disagreement within the geological community over the structure of the Earth's mantle.
(E) There has recently been a strong and exciting challenge to geologists' longstanding belief in the heterogeneity of the Earth's mantle.

2. According to the passage, it is believed that oceanic islands are formed from
(A) the same material as mantle xenoliths
(B) the same material as the mid-ocean ridge system
(C) volcanic rocks from the upper mantle
(D) incompatible elements percolating up from the lower mantle
(E) mantle plumes arising from the lower mantle

3. It can be inferred from the passage that the supporters of the “layered-mantle” theory believe which of the following?
I. The volcanic rocks on oceanic islands are composed of material derived from the lower part of the mantle.
II. The materials of which volcanic rocks on oceanic islands and mid-ocean ridges are composed are typical of the layers from which they are thought to originate.
III. The differences in composition between volcanic rocks on oceanic islands and the mid-ocean ridges are a result of different concentrations of incompatible elements.
(A) I only
(B) III only
(C) I and II only
(D) II and III only
(E) I, II, and III

4. The authors suggest that their proposal for determining the nature of the mantle’s heterogeneity might be considered by many to be
(A) pedestrian
(B) controversial
(C) unrealistic
(D) novel
(E) paradoxical

Passage 2
Until about five years ago, the very idea that peptide hormones might be made anywhere in the brain besides the hypothalamus was astounding. Peptide hormones, scientists thought, were made by endocrine glands and the hypothalamus was thought to be the brains' only endocrine gland. What is more, be-cause peptide hormones cannot cross the blood-brain barrier, researchers believed that they never got to any part of the brain other than the hypothalamus, where they were simply produced and then released into the bloodstream.
But these beliefs about peptide hormones were questioned as laboratory after laboratory found that antiserums to peptide hormones, when injected into the brain, bind in places other than the hypothalamus, indicating that either the hormones or substances that cross-react with the antiserums are present. The immunological method of detecting peptide hormones by means of antiserums, however, is imprecise. Cross-reactions are possible and this method cannot determine whether the substances detected by the antiserums really are the hormones, or merely close relatives. Furthermore, this method cannot be used to determine the location in the body where the detected substances are actually produced.
New techniques of molecular biology, however, provide a way to answer these questions. It is possible to make specific complementary DNA's (cDNA's) that can serve as molecular probes to seek out the messenger RNA's (mRNA's) of the peptide hormones. If brain cells are making the hormones, the cells will contain these mRNA's. If the products the brain cells make resemble the hormones but are not identical to them, then the cDNA’s should still bind to these mRNA’s, but should not bind as tightly as they would to mRNA’s for the true hormones. The cells containing these mRNA’s can then be isolated and their mRNA’s decoded to determine just what their protein products are and how closely the products resemble the true peptide hormones.
The molecular approach to detecting peptide hormones using cDNA probes should also be much faster than the immunological method because it can take years of tedious purifications to isolate peptide hormones and then develop antiserums to them. Roberts, expressing the sentiment of many researchers, states:“I was trained as an endocrinologist. But it became clear to me that the field of endocrinology needed molecular biology input. The process of grinding out protein purifications is just too slow.”
If, as the initial tests with cDNA probes suggest, peptide hormones really are made in the brain in areas other than the hypothalamus, a theory must be developed that explains their function in the brain. Some have suggested that the hormones are all growth regulators, but Rosen' s work on rat brains indicates that this cannot be true. A number of other researchers propose that they might be used for intercellular communication in the brain.

1. Which of the following titles best summarizes the passage?
(A) Is Molecular Biology the Key to Understanding Intercellular Communication in the Brain?
(B) Molecular Biology: Can Researchers Exploit Its Techniques to Synthesize Peptide Hormones?
(C) The Advantages and Disadvantages of the Immunological Approach to Detecting Peptide Hormones
(D) Peptide Hormones: How Scientists Are Attempting to Solve Problems of Their Detection and to Understand Their Function
(E) Peptide Hormones: The Role Played by Messenger RNA' s in Their Detection

2. The passage suggests that a substance detected in the brain by use of antiserums to peptide hormones may
(A) have been stored in the brain for a long period of time
(B) play no role in the functioning of the brain
(C) have been produced in some part of the body other than the brain
(D) have escaped detection by molecular methods
(E) play an important role in the functioning of the hypothalamus

3. According to the passage, confirmation of the belief that peptide hormones are made in the brain in areas other than the hypothalamus would force scientists to
(A) reject the theory that peptide hormones are made by endocrine glands
(B) revise their beliefs about the ability of antiserums to detect peptide hormones
(C) invent techniques that would allow them to locate accurately brain cells that produce peptide hormones
(D) search for techniques that would enable them to distinguish peptide hormones from their close relatives
(E) develop a theory that explains the role played by peptide hormones in the brain

4. Which of the following is mentioned in the passage as a drawback of the immunological method of detecting peptide hormones?
(A) It cannot be used to detect the presence of growth regulators in the brain.
(B) It cannot distinguish between the peptide hormones and substances that are very similar to them.
(C) It uses antiserums that are unable to cross the blood-brain barrier.
(D) It involves a purification process that requires extensive training in endocrinology.
(E) It involves injecting foreign substances directly into the bloodstream.

5. The passage implies that, in doing research on rat brains, Rosen discovered that
(A) peptide hormones are used for intercellular communication
(B) complementary DNA' s do not bind to cells producing peptide hormones
(C) products closely resembling peptide hormones are not identical to peptide hormones
(D) some peptide hormones do not function as growth regulators
(E) antiserums cross-react with substances that are not peptide hormones

6. Which of the following is a way in which the immunological method of detecting
peptide hormones differs from the molecular method?
(A) The immunological method uses substances that react with products of hormone producing cells, whereas the molecular method uses substances that react with a specific component of the cells themselves.
(B) The immunological method has produced results consistent with long-held beliefs about peptide hormones, whereas the molecular method has produced results that upset these beliefs.
(C) The immunological method requires a great deal of expertise, whereas the molecular method has been used successfully by nonspecialists.

7. The idea that the field of endocrinology can gain from developments in molecular biology is regarded by Roberts with
(A) incredulity
(B) derision
(C) indifference
(D) pride
(E) enthusiasm

Passage 3
It is frequently assumed that the mechanization of work has a revolutionary effect on the lives of the people who operate the new machines and on the society into which the machines have been introduced. For example, it has been suggested that the employment of women in industry took them out of the household, their traditional sphere, and fundamentally altered their position in society. In the nineteenth century, when women began to enter factories, Jules Simon, a French politician, warned that by doing so, women would give up their femininity. Friedrich Engels, however, predicted that women would be liberated from the "social, legal, and economic subordination" of the family by technological developments that made possible the recruitment of "the whole female sex. into public industry." Observers thus differed concerning the social desirability of mechanization's effects, but they agreed that it would transform women's lives.
Historians, particularly those investigating the history of women, now seriously question this assumption of transforming power. They conclude that such dramatic technological innovations as the spinning jenny, the sewing machine, the typewriter, and the vacuum cleaner have not resulted in equally dramatic social changes in women's economic position or in the prevailing evaluation of women's work. The employment of young women in textile mills during the Industrial Revolution was largely an extension of an older pattern of employment of young, single women as domestics. It was not the change in office technology, but rather the separation of secretarial work, previously seen as an apprenticeship for beginning managers, from administrative work that in the 1880's created a new class of "deadend" jobs, thenceforth considered "women's work." The increase in the numbers of married women employed outside the home in the twentieth century had less to do with the mechanization of housework and an increase in leisure time for these women than it did with their own economic necessity and with high marriage rates that shrank the available pool of single women workers, previously, in many cases, the only women employers would hire.
Women's work has changed considerably in the past 200 years, moving from the household to the office or the factory, and later becoming mostly white-collar instead of blue-collar work. Fundamentally, however, the conditions under which women work have changed little since before the Industrial Revolution: the segregation of occupations by gender, lower pay for women as a group, jobs that require relatively low levels of skill and offer women little opportunity for advancement all persist, while women's household labor remains demanding. Recent historical investigation has led to a major revision of the notion that technology is always inherently revolutionary in its effects on society. Mechanization may even have slowed any change in the traditional position of women both in the labor market and in the home.

1. Which of the following statements best summarizes the main idea of the passage?
(A) The effects of the mechanization of women's work have not borne out the frequently held assumption that new technology is inherently revolutionary.
(B) Recent studies have shown that mechanization revolutionizes a society's traditional values and the customary roles of its members.
(C) Mechanization has caused the nature of women's work to change since the Industrial Revolution.
(D) The mechanization of work creates who-le new classes of jobs that did not previously exist.
(E) The mechanization of women's work, while extremely revolutionary in its effects , has not, on the whole, had the deleterious effects that some critics had feared.

2. The author mentions all of the following inventions as examples of dramatic technological innovations EXCEPT the
(A) sewing machine
(B) vacuum cleaner
(C) typewriter
(D) telephone
(E) spinning jenny

3. It can be inferred from the passage that, before the Industrial Revolution, the majority of women's work was done in which of the following settings?
(A) Textile mills
(B) Private households
(C) Offices
(D) Factories
(E) Small shops

4. It can be inferred front the passage that the author would consider which of the following to be an indication of a fundamental alteration in the conditions of women's work?
(A) Statistics showing that the majority of women now occupy white-collar positions
(B) Interviews with married men indicating that they are now doing some household tasks
(C) Surveys of the labor market documenting the recent creation of a new class of jobs in electronics in which women workers outnumber men four to one
(D) Census results showing that working women's wages and salaries are, on the average, as high as those of working women.
(E) Enrollment figures from universities demonstrating that interesting numbers of young women are choosing to continue their education beyond the undergraduate level.

5. The passage states that, before the twentieth century, which of the following was true of many employers?
(A) They did not employ women in factories.
(B) They tended to employ single rather than married women.
(C) They employed women in only those jobs that were related to women's traditional household work.
(D) They resisted technological innovations that would radically change women's roles in the family.
(E) They hired women only when qualified men were not available to fill the open positions.

6. It can be inferred from the passage that the author most probably believes which of the following to be true concerning those historians who study the history of women?
(A) Their work provides insights important to those examining social phenomena affecting the lives of both sexes.
(B) Their work can only be used cautiously by scholars in other disciplines.
(C) Because they concentrate only on the role of women in the workplace, they draw more reliable conclusions than do other historians.
(D) While highly interesting, their work has not had an impact on most historians' current assumptions concerning the revolutionary effect of technology in the workplace.
(E) They oppose the further mechanization of work, which, according to their findings, tends to perpetuate existing inequalities in society.

7. Which of the following best describes the function of the concluding sentence of the passage?
(A) It sums up the general points concerning the mechanization of work made in
the passage as a whole.
(B) It draws a conclusion concerning the effects of the mechanization of work which goes beyond the evidence presented in the passage as a whole.
(C) It restates the point concerning technology made in the sentence immediately preceding it.
(D) It qualifies the author's agreement with scholars who argue for a major revision in the assessment of the impact of mechanization on society.
(E) It suggests a compromise between two seemingly contradictory views concerning the effects of mechanization on society.

Passage 4
Because of its accuracy in outlining the Earth's subsurface, the seismic-reflection method remains the most important tool in the search for petroleum reserves. In field practice, a subsurface is mapped by line arranging a series of wave-train sources, such as small dynamite explosions, in a grid pattern. As each source is activated, it gene-rates a wave train that moves downward at a speed determined uniquely by the rock's elastic characteristics. As rock interfaces are crossed, the elastic characteristics encountered generally change abruptly, which causes part of the energy to be reflected back to the surface, where it is recorded by seismic instruments. The seismic records must be processed to correct for positional differences between the source and the receiver, for unrelated wave trains, and for multiple reflections from the rock interfaces. Then the data acquired at each of the specific source locations are combined to generate a physical profile of the subsurface, which can eventually be used to select targets for drilling.

1. The passage is primarily concerned with
(A) describing an important technique
(B) discussing a new method
(C) investigating a controversial procedure
(D) announcing a significant discovery
(E) promoting a novel application

2. According to the passage, in the seismic-reflection method all of the following have a significant effect on the signal detected by the seismic instruments EXCEPT the
(A) presence of unrelated wave trains
(B) placement of the seismic instruments
(C) number of sources in the grid pattern
(D) nature of the reflectivity of the rock interfaces
(E) properties of rocks through which the wave train has traveled

3. It can be inferred from the passage that the seismic-reflection method would be likely to yield an inaccurate physical profile of the subsurface in which of the following circumstances?
(A) If the speed at which the wave train moved downward changed
(B) If the receiver were not positioned directly at the wave-train source
(C) If the rock on one side of a rock interface had similar elastic characteristics to those of the rock on the other side
(D) If the seismic records obtained for the different sources in a grid were highly similar to each other
(E) If there were no petroleum deposits beneath the area defined by the grid of wave-train sources

4. Which of the following best describes the organization of the passage?
(A) A method is criticized, and an alternative is suggested.
(B) An illustration is examined, and some errors are exposed.
(C) An assertion is made, and a procedure is outlined.
(D) A series of examples is presented, and a conclusion is drawn.
(E) A hypothesis is advanced, and supporting evidence is supplied.

??:
Passage 1: DECA
Passage 2: DCEBD AE
Passage 3: ADBDB AB
Passage 4: ACCC


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?5??

Passage 1
Some recent historians have argued that life in the British colonies in America from approximately 1763 to 1789 was marked by internal conflicts among colonists. Inheritors of some of the viewpoints of early twentieth century Progressive (historians such as Beard and Becker), these recent historians have put forward arguments that deserve evaluation.
The kind of conflict most emphasized by these historians is class conflict. Yet with the Revolutionary War dominating these years, how does one distinguish class conflict within that larger conflict? Certainly not by the side a person supported. Although many of these historians have accepted the earlier assumption that Loyalists represented an upper class, new evidence indicates that Loyalists, like rebels, were drawn from all socio-economic classes. (It is nonetheless probably true that a larger percentage of the well-to-do joined the Loyalists than joined the rebels.) looking at the rebel side, we find little evidence for the contention that lower-class rebels were in conflict with upper-class rebels. Indeed, the war effort against Britain tended to suppress class conflicts. Where it did not, the disputing rebels of one or another class usually became Loyalists. Loyalism thus operated as a safety valve to remove socioeconomic discontent that existed among the rebels. Disputes occurred, of course, among those who remained on the rebel side, but the extraordinary social mobility of eighteenth-century American society (with the obvious exception of slaves) usually prevented such disputes from hardening along class lines. Social structure was in fact so fluid-though recent statistics suggest a narrowing of economic opportunity as the latter half of the century progressed-that to talk about social classes at all requires the use of loose economic categories such as rich, poor, and middle class, or eighteenth-century designations like "the better sort." Despite these vague categories, one should not claim unequivocally that hostility between recognizable classes cannot be legitimately observed. Outside of New York, however, there were very few instances of openly expressed class antagonism.
Having said this, however, one must add that there is much evidence to support the further claim of recent historians that sectional conflicts were common between 1763 and 1789. The "Paxton Boys" incident and the Regulator movement are representative examples of the widespread, and justified, discontent of western settlers against colonial or state governments dominated by eastern interests. Although undertones of class conflict existed beneath such hostility, the opposition was primarily geographical. Sectional conflict which also existed between North and South-deserves further investigation.
In summary, historians must be careful about the kind of conflict they emphasize in eighteenth-century America. Yet those who stress the achievement of a general consensus among the colonists cannot fully understand that consensus without understanding the conflicts that had to be overcome or repressed in order to reach it.

1. The author considers the contentions made by the recent historians discussed in the passage to be
(A) potentially verifiable
(B) partially justified
(C) logically contradictory
(D) ingenious but flawed
(E) capricious and unsupported

2. The author most likely refers to "historians such as Beard and Becker" (lines 5-6) in order to
(A) isolate the two historians whose work is most representative of the viewpoints of Progressive historians
(B) emphasize the need to find connections between recent historical writing and the work of earlier historians
(C) make a case for the importance of the views of the Progressive historians concerning eighteenth-century American life
(D) suggest that Progressive historians were the first to discover the particular internal conflicts in eighteenth-century American life mentioned in the passage
(E) point out historians whose views of history anticipated some of the views of the recent historians mentioned in the passage

3. According to the passage, Loyalism during the American Revolutionary War served the function of
(A) eliminating the disputes that existed among those colonists who supported the rebel cause
(B) drawing upper, as opposed to lower, socioeconomic classes away from the rebel cause
(C) tolerating the kinds of socioeconomic discontent that were not allowed to exist on the rebel side
(D) channeling conflict that existed within a socioeconomic class into the war effort against the rebel cause
(E) absorbing members of socioeconomic groups on the rebel side who felt themselves in contention with members of other socioeconomic groups

4. The passage suggests that the author would be likely to agree with which of the following statements about the social structure of eighteenth-century American society?
I. It allowed greater economic opportunity than it did social mobility.
II. It permitted greater economic opportunity prior to 1750 than after 1750.
III. It did not contain rigidly defined socioeconomic divisions.
IV. It prevented economic disputes from arising among members of the society.
(A) I and IV only
(B) II and III only
(C) III and IV only
(D) I, II, and III only
(E) I, II, III, and IV

5. It can be inferred from the passage that the author would be most likely to agree with which of the following statements regarding socioeconomic class and support for the rebel and Loyalist causes during the American Revolutionary War?
(A) Identifying a person's socioeconomic class is the least accurate method of ascertaining which side that person supported.
(B) Identifying a person as a member of the rebel or of the Loyalist side does not necessarily reveal that person's particular socioeconomic class.
(C) Both the rebel and the Loyalist sides contained members of all socioeconomic
classes, although there were fewer disputes among socioeconomic classes on the Loyalist side.
(D) Both the rebel and the Loyalist sides contained members of all socioeconomic classes, although the Loyalist side was made up primarily of members of the upper classes.
(E) Both the rebel and the Loyalist sides contained members of all socioeconomic classes, although many upper-class rebels eventually joined the Loyalists.

6. The author suggests which of the following about the representativeness of colonial or state governments in America from 1763 to 1789 ?
(A) The governments inadequately represented the interests of people in western regions.
(B) The governments more often represented class interests than sectional interests.
(C) The governments were less representative than they had been before 1763 .
(D) The governments were dominated by the interests of people of an upper socioeconomic class.
(E) The governments of the northern colonies were less representative than were the governments of the southern colonies.

7. According to the passage, which of the following is a true statement about sectional conflicts in America between 1763 and 1789 ?
(A) These conflicts were instigated by eastern interests against western settlers.
(B) These conflicts were the most serious kind of conflict in America.
(C) The conflicts eventually led to openly expressed class antagonism.
(D) These conflicts contained an element of class hostility.
(E) These conflicts were motivated by class conflicts.

Passage 2.
In The Women of Mexico City, 1796-1857, Sylvia Marina Arrom argues that the status on women in Mexico City improved during the nineteenth century. According to Arrom, households headed by females and instances of women working outside the home were much more common than scholars have estimated; efforts by the Mexican government to encourage female education resulted in increased female literacy; and influential male writers wrote pieces advocating education, employment, and increased family responsibilities for women, while deploring women's political and marital inequality. Mention of the fact that the civil codes of 1870 and 1884 significantly advanced women's rights would have further strengthened Arrom's argument.
Arrom does not discuss whether women's improved status counteracted the effects on women of instability in the Mexican economy during the nineteenth century. However, this is not so much a weakness in her work as it is the inevitable result of scholars' neglect of this period Indeed, such gaps in Mexican history are precisely what make Arrom's pioneering study (an important addition to Latin American women's history).

1. The passage is primarily concerned with doing which of the following?
(A) Reviewing a historical study of the status of women in Mexico City during the nineteenth century.
(B) Analyzing the effects of economic instability on the status of women in Mexico during the nineteenth century
(C) Advancing a thesis explaining why women's status in Mexico City improved during the nineteenth century
(D) Rejecting the thesis that the status of women in Mexico City during the nineteenth century actually improved
(E) Praising an author for a pioneering attempt to bridge significant gaps in Mexico's economic history prior to 1790

2. According to the author of the passage, Arrom's study can be characterized as“an important addition to Latin American women’s history” (lines 21-22) because it
(A) offers a radical thesis concerning the status of women's civil rights in Mexican society during the nineteenth century
(B) relies on a new method of historical analysis that has not previously been applied to Latin American history
(C) focuses only on the status of women in Mexican society
(D) addresses a period in Mexican history that scholars have to some extent neglected
(E) is the first study to recognize the role of the Mexican government in encouraging women's education

3. It can be inferred from the passage that Arrom would agree with which of the following assertions?
(A) Efforts by the Mexican government to encourage education for women during the nineteenth century were hampered by the economic instability of that period.
(B) The most significant advances in the rights of Mexican women during the nineteenth century occurred prior to 1857.
(C) Improvements in the status of women in Mexico City during the nineteenth century were accompanied by similar improvements in the status of women in other large Latin American cities.
(D) Scholars have in the past accorded the most significance to nineteenth-century Mexi Mexican literature that supported the status quo in women's political and marital rights.
(E) Scholars have in the past underestimated the number of households headed by females in Mexico City.

4. Which of the following best describes the author's attitude toward Arrom's work?
(A) Uncritical approval
(B) Enthusiasm tempered by minor reservations
(C) Praise for her thesis, despite skepticism regarding the sources of her evidence
(D) Reluctant acceptance, despite lingering doubts regarding the accuracy of her thesis
(E) Rejection, despite admiration for her attempt to break new ground in a hitherto neglected field

Passage 3
Biologists have long maintained that two groups of pinnipeds, sea lions and walruses, are descended from a terrestrial bearlike animal, whereas the remaining group, seals, shares an ancestor with weasels. But the recent discovery of detailed similarities in the skeletal structure of the flippers in all three groups undermines the attempt to explain away superficial resemblance as due to convergent evolution the independent development of similarities between unrelated groups in response to similar environmental pressures. Flippers may indeed be a necessary response to aquatic life, turtles, whales, and dugongs also have them. But the common detailed design found among the pinnipeds probably indicates a common ancestor. Moreover, walruses and seals drive themselves through the water with thrusts of their hind flippers, but sea lions use their front flippers. If anatomical similarity in the flippers resulted from similar environmental pressures, as posited by the convergent-evolution theory, one would expect walruses and seals, but not seals and sea lions, to have similar flippers.

1. According to the passage, it has been recently discovered that
(A) there are detailed skeletal similarities in the flippers of pinnipeds
(B) sea lions, seals, and walruses are all pinnipeds
(C) pinnipeds are descended from animals that once lived on land
(D) animals without common ancestors sometimes evolve in similar ways
(E) animals that have flippers do not all use them in the same way

2. The author implies that which of the following was part of the long-standing view concerning pinnipeds?
(A) Pinnipeds are all descended from a terrestrial bearlike animal.
(B) Pinnipeds share a common ancestor with turtles, whales, and dugongs
(C) Similarities among pinnipeds are due to their all having had to adapt to aquatic life.
(D) There are detailed similarities in the skeletal structure of the flippers in all pinnipeds.
(E) Convergent evolution cannot account for the similarities among pinnipeds.

3. The author implies which of the following about the fact that turtles, whales, and dugongs all have flippers?
(A) It can be explained by the hypothesis that turtles, whales, and dugongs are very closely related.
(B) It can be explained by the idea of convergent evolution.
(C) It suggests that turtles, whales, and dugongs evolved in separate parts of the world.
(D) It undermines the view that turtles, whales, and dugongs are all descended from terrestrial ancestors.
(E) It is the primary difference between turtles, whales, and dugongs, on the one hand, and pinnipeds, on the other.

4. In presenting the argument in the passage, the author does which of the following?
(A) Contends that key terms in an opposing view have been improperly used.
(B) Contends that opponents have purposely obscured important evidence.
(C) Shows that two theories thought to be in conflict are actually complementary.
(D) Shows that advocates of a theory have not always stated their view in the same manner.
(E) Shows that an implication of a theory is contradicted by the facts.

Passage 4
In a recent study, David Cressy examines two central questions concerning English immigration to New England in the 1630's: what kinds of people immigrated and why? Using contemporary literary evidence, shipping lists, and customs records, Cressy finds that most adult immigrants were skilled in farming or crafts, were literate, and were organized in families. Each of these characteristics sharply distinguishes the 21,000 people who left for New England in the 1630's from most of the approximately 377,000 English people who had immigrating, to America by 1700.
With respect to their reasons for immigrating, Cressy does not deny the frequently noted fact that some of the immigrants of the 1630's, most notably the organizers and clergy, advanced religious explanations for departure, but he finds that such explanations usually assumed primacy only in retrospect When he moves beyond the principal actors, he finds that religious explanations were less frequently offered and he concludes that most people immigrated because they were recruited by promises of material improvement.

1.In the passage, the author is primarily concerned with
(A) summarizing the findings of an investigation
(B) analyzing a method of argument
(C) evaluating a point of view
(D) hypothesizing about a set of circumstances
(E) establishing categories

2. According to the passage, Cressy would agree with which of the following statements about the organizers among the English immigrants to New England in the 1630's?
I. Most of them were clergy.
II. Some of them offered a religious explanation for their immigration.
III. They did not offer any reasons for their immigration until some time after they had immigrated.
IV. They were more likely than the average immigrant to be motivated by material considerations.
(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) II and III only
(D) I, III, and IV only
(E) II, III, and IV only

3. According to the passage, Cressy has made which of the following claims about what motivated English immigrants to go to New England in the 1630's?
(A) They were motivated by religious considerations alone.
(B) They were motivated by economic considerations alone.
(C) They were motivated by religious and economic considerations equally.
(D) They were motivated more often by economic than by religious considerations.
(E) They were motivated more often by religious than by economic considerations.

4. The passage suggests that the majority of those English people who had immigrated to America by the late seventeenth century were
(A) clergy
(B) young children
(C) organized in families
(D) skilled in crafts
(E) illiterate

Passage 5
The 1960's witnessed two profound social movements: the civil rights movement and the movement protesting the war in Vietnam. Although they overlapped in time, they were largely distinct. For a brief moment in 1967, however, it appeared that the two movements might unite under the leadership of Martin Luther King, Jr.
King's role in the antiwar movement appears to require little explanation, since he was the foremost advocate of nonviolence of his time. (But (King's stance on the Vietnam War cannot be explained in terms of pacifism alone). After all, he was something of a latecomer to the antiwar movement, even though by 1965 he was convinced that the role of the United States in the war was indefensible). Why then the two years that passed before he translated his private misgivings into public dissent? Perhaps he believed that he could not criticize American foreign policy without endangering the support for civil rights that he had won from the federal government.

1. According to the passage, the delay referred to in (lines 12-15) is perhaps attributable to which of the following?
(A) King's ambivalence concerning the role of the United States in the war in Vietnam
(B) King's attempts to consolidate support for his leadership within the civil rights
movement
(C) King's desire to keep the leadership of the civil rights movement distinct from that of the antiwar movement
(D) King's desire to draw support for the civil rights movement from the leadership of the antiwar movement
(E) King's reluctance to jeopardize federal support for the civil rights movement

2. The author supports the claim that "King's stance on the Vietnam War cannot be explained in terms of pacifism alone" (lines 10-12) by implying which of the following?
(A) There is little evidence that King was ever a student of pacifist doctrine.
(B) King, despite pacifist sympathies, was not convinced that the policy of the federal government in Vietnam was wrong.
(C) King's belief in nonviolence was formulated in terms of domestic policy rather than in terms of international issues.
(D) Had King's actions been based on pacifism alone, he would have joined the antiwar movement earlier than he actually did.
(E) Opponents of United States foreign policy within the federal government convinced King of their need for support.

Passage 6
Aided by the recent ability to analyze samples of air trapped in glaciers, scientists now have a clearer idea of the relationship between atmospheric composition and global temperature change over the past 160,000 years. In particular, determination of atmospheric composition during periods of glacial expansion and retreat (cooling and warming) is possible using data from the 2,000-meter Vostok ice core drilled in Antarctica. The technique involved is similar to that used in analyzing cores of marine sediments, where the ratio of the two-common isotopes of oxygen, 12O and 16O, accurately reflects past temperature changes. Isotopic analysis of oxygen in the Vostok core suggests mean global temperature fluctuations of up to 10 degrees centigrade over the past 160,000 years.
Data from the Vostok core also indicate that the amount of carbon dioxide has fluctuated with temperature over the same period: the higher the temperature, the higher the concentration of carbon dioxide and the lower the temperature, the lower the concentration. Although change in carbon dioxide content closely follows change in temperature during periods of deglaciation it apparently lags behind temperature during periods of cooling .The correlation of carbon dioxide with temperature, of course, does not establish whether changes in atmospheric composition caused the warming and cooling trends or were caused by their.
Other data from the Vostok core show that methane gas also correlates closely with temperature and carbon dioxide. The methane concentration nearly doubled, for example, between the peak of the penultimate glacial period and the following interglacial period. Within the present interglacial period it has more than doubled in just the past 300 years and is rising rapidly. Although the concentration of atmospheric methane is more than two orders of magnitude lower than that of carbon dioxide, it cannot be ignored: the radiative properties of methane make it 20 times more effective, molecule for molecule, than carbon dioxide in absorbing radiant heat. On the basis of a simulation model that climatological researchers have developed, methane appears to have been about 25 per.


??:
Passage 1: BEEBB AD
Passage 2: ADEB
Passage 3: ACBE
Passage 4: ABDE
Passage 5: ED


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?6??

Passage 1
Although, recent years have seen substantial reductions in noxious pollutants from individual motor vehicles, the number of such vehicles has been steadily increasing consequently, more than 100 cities in the United States still have levels of carbon monoxide, particulate matter, and ozone (generated by photochemical, reactions with hydrocarbons from vehicle exhaust) that exceed legally established limits. There is a growing, realization that the only effective way to achieve, further reductions in vehicle emissions-short of a massive shift away from the private automobile-is to replace conventional diesel fuel and gasoline with cleaner-burning fuels such as compressed natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, ethanol, or methanol.
All of these alternatives are carbon-based fuels whose molecules are smaller and simpler than those of gasoline. These molecules burn more cleanly than gasoline, in part because they have fewer, if and , carbon-carbon bonds, and the hydrocarbons they do emit are less likely to generate ozone. The combustion of larger molecules, which have multiple carbon-carbon bonds, involves a more complex series of reactions. These reactions increase the probability of incomplete combustion and are more likely to release uncombusted and photochemically active hydrocarbon compounds into the atmosphere. On the other hand, alternative fuels do have drawbacks. Compressed natural gas would require that vehicles have a set of heavy fuel tanks-a serious liability in terms of performance and fuel efficiency--and liquefied petroleum gas faces fundamental limits on supply.
Ethanol and methanol, on the other hand, have important advantages over other carbon-based alternative fuels: they have a higher energy content per volume and would require minimal changes in the existing network for distributing motor fuel. Ethanol is commonly used as a gasoline supplement, but it is currently about twice as expensive as methanol, the low cost of which is one of its attractive features. Methanol's most attractive feature, however, is that it can reduce by about 90 percent the vehicle emissions that form ozone, the most serious urban air pollutant.
Like any alternative fuel, methanol has its critics, Yet much of the criticism is based on the use of "gasoline clone" vehicles that do not incorporate even the simplest design improvements that are made possible with the use of methanol. It is true, for example, that a given volume of methanol provides only about one-half of the energy that gasoline and diesel fuel do; other things being equal, the fuel tank would have to be somewhat larger and heavier. However, since methanol- fueled vehicles could be designed to be much more efficient than "gasoline clone" vehicles fueled with methanol, they would need comparatively less fuel. Vehicles incorporating only the simplest of the engine improvements that methanol makes feasible would still contribute to an immediate lessening of urban air pollution.

1. The author of the passage is primarily concerned with
(A) countering a flawed argument that dismisses a possible solution to a problem
(B) reconciling contradictory points of view about the nature of a problem
(C) identifying the strengths of possible solutions to a problem.
(D) discussing a problem and arguing in favor of one solution to it
(E) outlining a plan of action to solve a problem and discussing the obstacles blocking that plan.

2.According to the passage, incomplete combustion is more likely to occur with gasoline than with an alternative fuel because
(A) the combustion of gasoline releases photochemically active hydrocarbons
(B) the combustion of gasoline involves an intricate series of reactions
(C) gasoline molecules have a simple molecular structure
(D) gasoline is composed of small molecules.
(E) gasoline is a carbon-based fuel

3.The passage suggests which of the following about air pollution?
(A) Further attempts to reduce emissions from gasoline-fueled vehicles will not help lower urban air-pollution levels.
(B) Attempts to reduce the pollutants that an individual gasoline-fueled vehicle emits have been largely unsuccessful.
(C) Few serious attempts have been made to reduce the amount of pollutants emitted by gasoline-fueled vehicles.
(D) Pollutants emitted by gasoline-fueled vehicles are not the most critical source of urban air pollution.
(E) Reductions in pollutants emitted by individual vehicles have been offset by increases in pollution from sources other than gasoline-fueled vehicles.

4. which of the following most closely parallels the situation described in the first sentence of the passage?
(A) Although a town reduces its public services in order to avoid a tax increase, the town's tax rate exceeds that of other towns in the surrounding area.
(B) Although a state passes strict laws to limit the type of toxic material that can be disposed of in public landfills, illegal dumping continues to increase.
(C) Although a town's citizens reduce their individual use of water, the town's water supplies continue to dwindle because of a steady increase in the total population of the town.
(D) Although a country attempts to increase the sale of domestic goods by adding a tax to

5.The author describes which of the following as the most appealing feature of methanol?
(A) It is substantially less expensive than ethanol.
(B) It could be provided to consumers through the existing motor fuel distribution system.
(C) It has a higher energy content than other alternative fuels.
(D) Its use would make design improvements in individual vehicles feasible.
(E) Its use would substantially reduce ozone levels.

6. It can be inferred from the passage that a vehicle specifically designed to use methanol for fuel would
(A) be somewhat lighter in total body weight than a conventional vehicle fueled with gasoline
(B) be more expensive to operate than a conventional vehicle fueled with gasoline
(C) have a larger and more powerful engine than a conventional vehicle fueled with gasoline
(D) have a larger and heavier fuel tank than a "gasoline clone" vehicle fueled with methanol
(E) average more miles per gallon than a "gasoline clone" vehicle fueled with methanol

7. It can be inferred that the author of the passage most likely regards the criticism of methanol in the last paragraph as
(A) flawed because of the assumptions on which it is based
(B) inapplicable because of an inconsistency in the critics' arguments.
(C) misguided because of its exclusively technological focus
(D) inaccurate because it ignores consumers' concerns
(E) invalid because it reflects the personal bias of the critics

Passage 2
In the fields of Delano. California, in 1965. Luis Valdez started the Teatro Campesino (Farm- worker's Theater), and with it initiated the renaissance of Mexican American theater. The Teatro Campesino had an avowedly political purpose: to rally campesinos (farm-workers) in support of the farm workers' strike then being organized by Cesar Chavez Valdez' dramatic presentations, called actors, spoke to a campesino audience and addressed topics and themes directly related to the strike. Valdez' early actors were composed of a series of scenes about the strike experience acted by campesino volunteers. His later actors were presented by a newly constituted professional company, still called the Teatro Campesino, and addressed such themes as the impact of the Vietnam War on Mexican Americans and the dangers of assimilation, themes relevant to urban Mexican Americans as well as to campesinos. All Valdez' actors contained elements of song and dance. relied little on stage effects or props, and featured the use of masks. These dramatic elements, along with an intensely social or political purpose and the use of a mixture of Spanish, English, and Mexican American dialects in the dialogues. which realistically capture the flavor of Mexican American conversation, are still characteristic both of the actor and of most other forms of Mexican American theater today.
Innovative as it is, the actor owes much to the theater traditions or other periods and regions. (Like early Spanish American religious dramas, secular folk dramas, and the Mexica an carpas of a somewhat later period, actors are usually performed outdoors by traveling groups of players or by local theater groups). The improvised comic satire of the actors is often attributed to Valdez' study of the Italian commedia dell' arte of the sixteenth century, although some critics see it as a direct reflection of the comic and improvisational qualities of the more contemporary and local carpas of Mexican theater. The Italian influence is likely, whatever Valdez immediate source: the Mexican carpas themselves are said to have originated from the theater pieces of a sixteenth-century Spanish writer inspired by encounters with Italian commedia dell'arte troupes on tour in Spain. The English-language theater has provided elements as well: Valdez himself has acknowledged his debt to the agitprop socialist theater that appeared in the United States during the 1920's and 1930's. In particular, his actors contain the same assortment of semiallegorical characters and the same blend of music, chorus, and dialogue found in some of the agitprop pieces, as well as the same fierce spirit of social and political critique. Finally, many of Valdez' later theater pieces freely incorporate characters, plots and symbols drawn from the indigenous myths and rituals of the pre-Hispanic peoples of Latin America. In fact, no other art form illustrates more clearly the depth and complexity of the Mexican American heritage itself than does the actor of Luis Valdez and the Teatro Campesino.

1. According to the passage, the original impetus behind the establishment of the Teatro Campesino was which of the following?
(A) To help urban Mexican Americans understand the problems confronting striking campesinos in California
(B) To promote an attitude of pride in the depth and richness of the Mexican American heritage among striking campesinos.
(C) To provide striking campesinos an opportunity to use their creative talents to express their political opinions.
(D) To allow its founder to express his personal support of the campesinos' strike effort.
(E) To mobilize compesinos to support the farm workers' strike in California

2. The author cites all of the following as probable influences on Valdez' development of the acto EXCEPT the
(A) theater of sixteenth-century Italy
(B) carpas of Mexico
(C) drama of classical Greece
(D) English-language theater of the United States
(E) myths and rituals of pre-Hispanic America

3. The passage suggests that which of the following was true of the later actors of the Teatro Campesino?
(A) They were more politically effective than were earlier actos.
(B) They were presented primarily outdoors, whereas earlier actos were presented inside theaters.
(C) They used a greater mixture of dialects than did the earlier acros.
(D) They addressed a broader audience than did the earlier actos.
(E) They differed from earlier actos in that they contained fewer improvisational elements.

4.Which of the following best describes the author's evaluation of the views of the critics cited in line 36-39?
(A) Their views, if correct, do not preclude the existence of an Italian influence on the acto.
(B) Their views are unlikely to be correct, given the differences existing between Mexican and Mexican American theater.
(C) Their views concerning the Mexican carpa are essentially correct, but they lack familiarity with the actor.
(D) Their views are probably more correct than the views of those who have attributed the comic and improvisational elements of the actor to earlier sources.
(E) Their views betray a lack of familiarity with the commedia dell'arte.

5. The passage suggests that which of the following explains the characteristic use of a mixture of Spanish, English. and Mexican American dialects in the works of Mexican American playwrights?
(A) Mexican American playwrights wish to include in their works elements drawn from the traditions and history of pre-Hispanic America.
(B) Mexican American playwrights try to guarantee that their works are fully understood by the broadest possible audience, including those who may speak only one language.
(C) Such a linguistic mix faithfully reflects the linguistic diversity of Mexican American culture, and is easily understood by most Mexican Americans. 

6. According to the passage, which of the following elements characteristic of the acto are also found in some agitprop theater pieces?
(A) The use of masks
(B) Comic improvisation
(C) An outdoor setting
(D) Minimal use of complex stage effects or props
(E) An assortment of semiallegorical characters

7. Which of the following, if true, most strengthens the author's argument concerning the debt of the acto to the theater traditions of other periods and regions?
(A) Many popular forms of theater rely heavily on improvisation.
(B) Plays resembling the actor in structure were written in the 1970's by West African playwrights who are interested in dramatizing the richness of their own cultures.
(C) The use of masks has, at one time or another, been characteristic of the theater traditions of almost all cultures, even those most isolated from outside influences.
(D) During a strike, it is common for union members to present musical skits dramatizing the values of solidarity and resistance.
(E) Before 1965 Luis Valdez had attended many performances of traditional Mexican theater groups touring the western United States.

Passage 3
The two claws of the mature American lobster are decidedly different from each other. The crusher claw is short and stout; the cutter claw is long and slender. Such bilateral asymmetry, in which the right side of the body is, in all other respects, a mirror image of the left side, is not unlike handedness in humans .But where the majority of humans are right-handed, in lobsters the crusher claw appears with equal probability on either the right or left side of the body.
Bilateral asymmetry of the claws comes about gradually. In the juvenile fourth and fifth stages of development, the paired claws are symmetrical and cutterlike. Asymmetry begins to appear in the juvenile sixth stage of development, and the paired claws further diverge toward well-defined cutter and crusher claws during succeeding stages. An intriguing aspect of this development was discovered by Victor Emmel. He found that if one of the paired claws is removed during the fourth or fifth stage, the intact claw invariably becomes a crusher, while the regenerated claw becomes a cutter. Removal of a claw during a later juvenile stage or during adulthood, when asymmetry is present, does not alter the asymmetry; the intact and the regenerate claws retain their original structures.
These observations indicate that the conditions that trigger differentiation must operate in a random, manner when the paired claws are intact but in a nonrandom manner when one of the claws is lost. One possible explanation is that differential use of the claws determines their asymmetry. Perhaps the claw that is used more becomes the crusher. This would explain why, when one of the claws is missing during the fourth or fifth stage, the intact claw always becomes a crusher. With two intact claws, initial use of one claw might prompt the animal to use it more than the other throughout the juvenile fourth and fifth stages, causing it to become a crusher.
 To test this hypothesis, researchers raised lobsters in the juvenile fourth and fifth stages of development in a laboratory environment in which the lobsters could manipulate oyster chips. (Not coincidentally, at this stage of development lobsters typically change from a habitat where they drift passively, to the ocean floor where they have the opportunity to be more active by burrowing in the substrate.) Under these conditions, the lobsters developed asymmetric claws, half with crusher claws on the left, and half with crusher claws on the right. In contrast, when juvenile lobsters were reared in a smooth tank without the oyster chips, the majority developed two cutter claws. This unusual configuration of symmetrical cutter claws did not change when the lobsters were subsequently placed in a manipulatable environment or when they lost and regenerated one or both claws.

1.The passage is primarily concerned with
(A) drawing an analogy between asymmetry in lobsters and handedness in humans
(B) developing a method for predicting whet-her crusher claws in lobsters will appear on the left or right side
(C) explaining differences between lobsters' crusher claws and cutter claws
(D) discussing a possible explanation for the way bilateral asymmetry is determined in lobsters
(E) summarizing the stages of development of the lobster

2.Each of the following statements about the development of a lobster's crusher claw is supported by information in the passage EXCEPT:
(A) It can be stopped on one side and begun on the other after the juvenile sixth stage.
(B) It occurs gradually over a number of stages.
(C) It is initially apparent in the juvenile sixth stage.
(D) It can occur even when a prospective crusher claw is removed in the juvenile sixth stage.
(E) It is less likely in the absence of a manipulatable environment.

3.Which of the following experimental results, if observed, would most clearly contradict the findings of Victor Emmel?
(A) A left cutterlike claw is removed in the fifth stage and a crusher claw develops on the right side.
(B) A left cutterlike claw is removed in the fourth stage and a crusher claw develops on the left side.
(C) A left cutterlike claw is removed in the sixth stage and a crusher claw develops on the right side.
(D) Both cutterlike claws are removed in the fifth stage and a crusher claw develops on the left side.
(E) Both cutterlike claws are removed in the fourth stage and a crusher claw develops on the right side.

4. It can be inferred that of the two laboratory environments mentioned in the passage, the one with oyster chips was designed to
(A) prove that the presence of oyster chips was not necessary for the development of a crusher claw.
(B) prove that the relative length of time that the lobsters were exposed to the oyster-chip environment had little impact on the development of a crusher claw
(C) eliminate the environment as a possible influence in the development of a crusher claw
(D) control on which side the crusher claw develops
(E) simulate the conditions that lobsters encounter in their natural environment

5. It can be inferred from the passage that one difference between lobsters in the earlier stages of development and those in the juvenile fourth and fifth stages is that lobsters in the early stages are
(A) likely to be less active
(B) likely to be less symmetrical
(C) more likely to lose a claw
(D) more likely to replace a crusher claw with a cutter claw
(E) more likely to regenerate a lost claw

6.Which of the following conditions does the passage suggest is a possible cause for the failure of a lobster to develop a crusher claw?
(A) The loss of a claw during the third or earlier stage of development
(B) The loss of a claw during the fourth or fifth stage of development
(C) The loss of a claw during the sixth stage of development
(D) Development in an environment devoid of material that can be manipulated
(E) Development in an environment that changes frequently throughout the stages of development

7.The author regards the idea that differentiation is triggered randomly when paired claws remain intact as
(A) irrefutable considering the authoritative nature of Emmel's observations
(B) likely in view of present evidence
(C) contradictory to conventional thinking on lobster-claw differentiation
(D) purely speculative because it is based on scattered research and experimentation
(E) unlikely because of apparent inconsistencies with theories on handedness in humans

Passage 4
One advantage of breeding African bees with other bee types (Africanization) may be resistance to the parasitic mite Varroa jacobsoni, a major threat to modern bee-keeping. (In parts of Europe, this mite is devastating honeybees and killing many colonies despite preventive measures by beekeepers). But in Brazil Varroa jacobsoni has been present in Africanized bees since 1972 without the loss of a single colony, even though beekeepers there undertook no preventive measures. The mites lay eggs within the brood cells of immature bees, and developing mites feed on the hemolymph (blood) of bee pupae. But fewer mites reproduce in Africanized bees than in European bees. Some researchers point out that this resistance may be related to the Africanized worker bee's shorter development period, which prevents some mites from reaching maturity. Recently the mite has become a serious problem in colonies of European bees in North America. Africanization of these bees may be the best safeguard against this parasite.

1. The passage suggests that which of the following was true of the honeybee colonies described in line 4-6?
(A) Their life expectancy, when free of disease ,was shorter than that of European bee colonies In North America.
(B) They were not Africanizcd.
(C) Their life cycle did not accommodate the feeding, habits of Varroa jacobsoni.
(D) They responded well to measures to control Varroa jacobsoni.
(E) They were managed using methods that were more modern than those employed
in Brazil.

2. The author cites all of the following as evidence that Africanized bees' resistance to Varroa jacobsoni is superior to that of European bees EXCEPT:
(A) Fewer Varroa jacobsoni mites reproduce in Africanized bees.
(B) Varroa jacobsoni is killing many bee colonies in Europe.
(C) Beekeepers in Brazil have not used preventive measures to protect their colonies.
(D) Brazilian bee colonies have endured Varroa jacobsoni since 1972.
(E) At least some European bee colonies have been saved by preventive measures.

3. According to the passage, research suggests that one possible reason the Africanized bees in Brazil have successfully resisted Varroa jacobsoni is that
(A) the life cycle of the Africanized bee may limit the Varroa jacobsoni mite's opportunity to reach full development
(B) the Africanized bees may have had an opportunity to develop a chemical resistance to Varroa jacobsoni
(C) the location of bee colonies in Brazil may provide a natural deterrent to Varroa jacobsoni
(D) Varroa jacobsoni may be relatively new to Brazil and may not have had time to become widespread
(E) beekeepers may have developed effective control techniques for Varroa jacobsoni

4. The author's argument regarding the resistance of Africanized bees to Varroa jacobsoni would be most weakened if which of the following were true?
(A) The bees in Brazil were resistant before being Africanized.
(B) The number of bee colonies in North American increased dramatically whereas the n-umber in Brazil remained unchanged.
(C) Mites found in European bees reproduce at a faster rate than mites of identical species found in the bees in Brazil.
(D) Africanized bees retain many of the characteristics of European bees.
(E) Bee colonies in Europe continue to produce greater quantities of honey than do those in Brazil.

??:
Passage 1: C(D)BACE EA
Passage 2: ECDAC EE
Passage 3: DABEA DB
Passage 4: BEAA


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?7??

Passage 1
The defoliation of millions of acres of trees by massive infestations of gypsy moth cater-pillars is a recurring phenomenon in the northeastern United States. In studying these outbreaks, scientists have discovered that affected trees fight back by releasing toxic chemicals, mainly phenols, into their foliage. These noxious substances limit caterpillars' growth and reduce the number of eggs that female moths lay. Phenols also make the eggs smaller, which reduces the growth of the following year's caterpillars. (Because the number of eggs a female moth produces is directly related to her size, and because her size is determined entirely by her feeding success as a caterpillar, the trees' defensive mechanism has an impact on moth fecundity).
The gypsy moth is also subject to attack by the nucleopolyhedrosis virus, or wilt disease, a particularly important killer of the caterpillars in outbreak years. Caterpillars contract wilt disease when they eat a leaf to which the virus, encased in a protein globule, has become attached. Once ingested by a caterpillar, the protein globule dissolves, releasing thousands of viruses, or virions, that after about two weeks multiply enough to fill the entire body cavity. When the caterpillar dies, the virions are released to the outside, encased in a new protein globule synthesized from the caterpillar's tissues and ready to be picked up by other caterpillars.
 Knowing that phenols, including tannins, often act by associating with and altering the activity of proteins researchers focused on the effects on caterpillars of ingesting the virus and leaves together. They found that on tannin-rich oak leaves, the virus is considerably less effective at killing caterpillars than when it is on aspen leaves, which are lower in phenols. In general, the more concentrated the phenols in tree leaves, the less deadly the virus. Thus, while highly concentrated phenols in tree leaves reduce the caterpillar population by limiting the size of caterpillars and, consequently, the size of the female's egg cluster, these same chemicals also help caterpillars survive by disabling the wilt virus. Forest stands of red oaks, with their tannin-rich foliage, may even provide caterpillars with safe havens from disease. In stands dominated by trees such as aspen, however, incipient gypsy moth outbreaks are quickly suppressed by viral epidemics. 
Further research has shown that caterpillars become virtually immune to the wilt virus as the trees on which they feed respond to increasing defoliation. The trees' own defenses raise the threshold of caterpillar vulnerability to the disease, allowing populations to grow denser without becoming more susceptible to infection. For these reasons, the benefits to the caterpillars of ingesting phenols appear to outweigh the costs. Given the presence of the virus, the trees' defensive tactic apparently has backfired.

1. Which of the following statements best expresses the main point of the passage?
(A) Recurring outbreaks of infestation by gypsy moth caterpillars have had a devastating impact on trees in the northeastern United States.
(B) A mechanism used by trees to combat the threat from gypsy moth caterpillars has actually made some trees more vulnerable to that threat.
(C) Although deadly to gypsy moth caterpillars, wilt disease has failed to significantly affect the population density of the caterpillars.
(D) The tree species with the highest levels of phenols in their foliage are the most successful in defending themselves against gypsy moth caterpillars.
(E) In their efforts to develop new methods for controlling gypsy moth caterpillars, researchers have focused on the effects of phenols in tree leaves on the insects' growth and reproduction

2. In lines 12-14, the phrase "the trees" defensive mechanism has an impact on moth fecundity" refers to which of the following phenomena?
(A) Female moths that ingest phenols are more susceptible to wilt virus, which causes them to lay smaller eggs.
(B) Highly concentrated phenols in tree leaves limit caterpillars' food supply, thereby reducing the gypsy moth population.
(C) Phenols attack the protein globule that protects moth egg clusters, making them vulnerable to wilt virus and lowering their survival rate.
(D) Phenols in oak leaves drive gypsy moths into forest stands dominated by aspens, where they succumb to viral epidemics.
(E) The consumption of phenols by caterpillars results in undersized female gypsy moths, which tend to produce small egg clusters.

3. It can be inferred from the passage that wilt disease virions depend for their survival on
(A) protein synthesized from the tissues of a host caterpillar
(B) aspen leaves with high concentrations of phenols
(C) tannin-rich oak leaves
(D) nutrients that they synthesize from gypsy moth egg clusters
(E) a rising threshold of caterpillar vulnerability to wilt disease

4. Which of the following, if true, would most clearly demonstrate the operation of the trees' defensive mechanism as it is described in the first paragraph of the passage?
(A) Caterpillars feeding on red oaks that were more than 50 percent defoliated grew to be only two thirds the size of those feeding on trees with relatively intact foliage.
(B) Oak leaves in areas unaffected by gypsy moths were found to have higher levels of tannin on average than aspen leaves in areas infested with gypsy moths.
(C) The survival rate of gypsy moth caterpillars exposed to the wilt virus was 40 percent higher for those that fed on aspen leaves than for those that ate oak leaves.
(D) Female gypsy moths produced an average of 25 percent fewer eggs in areas where the wilt virus flourished than did moths in areas that were free of the virus.
(E) Gypsy moth egg clusters deposited on oak trees were found to have relatively large individual eggs compared to those deposited on aspen trees.

5. Which of the following best describes the function of the third paragraph of the
passage?
(A) It resolves a contradiction between the ideas presented in the first and second paragraphs.
(B) It introduces research data to support the theory outlined in the second paragraph.
(C) It draws a conclusion from conflicting evidence presented in the first two paragraphs.
(D) It shows how phenomena described in the first and second paragraphs act in combination.
(E) It elaborates on the thesis introduced in the first paragraph after a digression in the second paragraph.

6. It can be inferred from the passage that gypsy moth caterpillars become immune to the wilt virus as a result of
(A) consuming a wide range of nutrients from a variety of leaf types
(B) feeding on leaves that contain high levels of phenols
(C) producing fewer offspring, which favors the survival of the hardiest individuals
(D) ingesting the virus together with leaves that do not contain tannin
(E) growing population density, which outstrips the ability of the virus to multiply and spread

7. Which of the following statements about gypsy moth caterpillars is supported by information presented in the passage?
(A) Wilt disease is more likely to strike small gypsy moth caterpillars than large ones.
(B) The concentration of phenols in tree leaves increases as the gypsy moth caterpillar population dies off.
(C) Female gypsy moth caterpillars stop growing after they ingest leaves containing phenols.
(D) Differing concentrations of phenols in leaves have differing effects on the ability of the wilt virus to kill gypsy moth caterpillars.
(E) The longer a gypsy moth population is ex-posed to wilt disease, the greater the likelihood that the gypsy moth caterpillars will become immune to the virus.

Passage 2
The sweep of narrative in A. N. Wilson's biography of C.S. Lewis is impressive and there is much that is acute and well argued. But much in this work is careless and unworthy of its author. Wilson, a novelist and an accomplished biographer, has failed to do what any writer on such a subject as Lewis ought to do, namely work out a coherent view of how the various literary works by the subject are to be described and commented on. Decisions have to be made on what to look at in detail and what to pass by with just a mention. Wilson has not thought this problem out. For instance, Till We Have Faces, Lewis' treatment of the Eros and Psyche story and one of his best-executed and most moving works, is merely mentioned by Wilson, though it illuminates Lewis' spiritual development, whereas Lewis' minor work Pilgrim's Regress is looked at in considerable detail.

1. The author of the passage implies that Wilson's examination of Pilgrim's Regress
(A) is not as coherent as his treatment of Till We Have Faces
(B) would have been more appropriate in a separate treatise because of the scope of Pilgrim's Regress
(C) demonstrates how Wilson's narrow focus ignores the general themes of Lewis' works
(D) was more extensive than warranted because of the relative unimportance of Pilgrim's Regress
(E) was disproportionately long relative to the amount of effort Lewis devoted to writing Pilgrim's Regress.

2. The author of the passage would be most likely to agree with which of the following statements regarding Till We Have Faces?
(A) It is an improvement over the Eros and Psyche story on which it is based.
(B) It illustrated Lewis' attempt to involve his readers emotionally in the story of Eros and Psyche.
(C) It was more highly regarded by Wilson than by Lewis himself.
(D) It is one of the outstanding literary achievements of Lewis' career.
(E) It is probably one of the most popular of Lewis' works.

3.Which of the following best describes the organization of the passage?
(A) An evaluation is made, and aspects of the evaluation are expanded on with supporting evidence.
(B) A theory is proposed, and supporting examples are provided.
(C) A position is examined, analyzed, and rejected.
(D) A contradiction is described, then the points of contention are evaluated and reconciled.
(E)Opposing views are presented and evaluated, then modifications are advocated.

4. Which of the following best describes the content of the passage?
(A) A critique of A. N. Wilson as a biographer
(B) An evaluation of the significance of several works by C. S. Lewis
(C) An appraisal of a biography by A. N. Wilson
(D) A ranking of the elements necessary for a well-structured biography
(E) A proposal for evaluating the literary merits of the works of C. S. Lewis

Passage 3
Influenced by the view of some twentieth-century feminists that women's position within the family is one of the central factors determining women's social position, some historians have underestimated the significance of the woman suffrage movement. These historians contend that nineteenth-century suffragist was less radical and, hence, less important than, for example, the moral reform movement or domestic feminism-two nineteenth century movements in which women struggled for more power and autonomy within the family. True, by emphasizing these struggles, such historians have broadened the conventional view of nineteenth-century feminism, but they do a historical disservice to suffragism. Nineteenth-century feminists and antifeminist alike perceived the suffragists' demand for enfranchisement as the most radical element in women's protest, in part because suffragists were demanding power that was not based on the institution of the family, women's traditional sphere. When evaluating nineteenth-century feminism as a social force, contemporary historians should consider the perceptions of actual participants in the historical events.

1.The author asserts that the historians discussed in the passage have
(A) influenced feminist theorists who concentrate on the family
(B) honored the perceptions of the women who participated in the women suffrage movement
(C) treated feminism as a social force rather than as an intellectual tradition
(D) paid little attention to feminist movements
(E) expanded the conventional view of nineteenth-century feminism

2.The author of the passage asserts that some twentieth-century feminists have influenced some historians view of the
(A) significance of the woman suffrage movement
(B) importance to society of the family as an institution
(C) degree to which feminism changed nineteenth-century society
(D) philosophical traditions on which contemporary feminism is based
(E) public response to domestic feminism in the nineteenth century

3.The author of the passage suggests that which of the following was true of nineteenth-century feminists?
(A) Those who participated in the moral reform movement were motivated primarily by a desire to reconcile their private lives with their public positions.
(B) Those who advocated domestic feminism, although less visible than the suffragists, were in some ways the more radical of the two groups.
(C) Those who participated in the woman suffrage movement sought social roles for women that were not defined by women's familial roles.

4.The author implies that which of the following is true of the historians discussed in the passage?
(A) They argue that nineteenth-century feminism was not as significant a social force as twentieth-century feminism has been.
(B) They rely too greatly on the perceptions of the actual participants in the events they study.
(C) Their assessment of the relative success of nineteenth-century domestic feminism does not adequately take into account the effects of antifeminist rhetoric.
(D)Their assessment of the significance of nineteenth-century suffragism differs considerably from that of nineteenth-century feminists.
(E) They devote too much attention to nineteenth-century suffragism at the expense of more radical movements that emerged shortly after the turn of the century.

Passage 4
Many objects in daily use have clearly been influenced by science, but their form and function, their dimensions and appearance, were determined by technologists artisans, designers, inventors, and engineers---using nonscientific modes of thought. Many features and qualities of the objects that a technologist thinks about cannot be reduced to unambiguous verbal descriptions; they are dealt with in the mind by a visual, nonverbal process. In the development of Western technology, it has been nonverbal thinking, by and large, that has fixed the outlines and filled in the details of our material surroundings. Pyramids, cathedrals, and rockets exist not because of geometry or thermodynamics, but because they were first a picture in the minds of those who built them.
The creative shaping process of a technologist's mind can be seen in nearly every artifact that exists. For example, in designing a diesel engine, a technologist might impress individual ways of nonverbal thinking on the machine by continually using an intuitive sense of rightness and fitness. What would be the shape of the combustion chamber? Where should the valves be placed? Should it have a long or short piston? Such questions have a range of answers that are supplied by experience, by physical requirements, by limitations of available space, and not least by a sense of form. Some decisions, such as wall thickness and pin diameter, may depend on scientific calculations, but the nonscientific component of design remains primary.
Design courses, then, should be an essential element in engineering curricula. Nonverbal thinking, a central mechanism in engineering design, involves perceptions, the stock-in-trade of the artist, not the scientist. Because perceptive processes are not assumed to entail "hard thinking," nonverbal thought is sometimes seen as a primitive stage in the development of cognitive processes and inferior to verbal or mathematical thought. But it is (paradoxical) that when the staff of the Historic American Engineering Record wished to have drawings made of machines and isometric views of industrial processes for its historical record of American engineering, the only college students with the requisite abilities were not engineering students, but rather students attending architectural schools.
It courses in design, which in a strongly analytical engineering curriculum provide the background required for practical problem-solving, are not provided, we can expect to encounter silly but costly errors occurring in advanced engineering systems. For example, early models of high-speed railroad cars loaded with sophisticated controls were unable to operate in a snowstorm because a fan sucked snow into the electrical system. Absurd random failures that plague automatic control systems are (not merely trivial aberrations): they are a reflection of the chaos that results when design is assumed to be primarily a problem in mathematics.

1. In the passage, the author is primarily concerned with
(A) identifying the kinds of thinking that are used by technologists
(B) stressing the importance of nonverbal thinking in engineering design
(C) proposing a new role for nonscientific thinking in the development of technology
(D) contrasting the goals of engineers with those of technologists
(E) criticizing engineering schools for emphasizing science in engineering curricula.

2. It can be inferred that the author thinks engineering curricula are
(A) strengthened when they include courses in design
(B) weakened by the substitution of physical science courses for courses designed to develop mathematical skills
(C) strong because nonverbal thinking is still emphasized by most of the courses
(D) strong despite the errors that graduates of such curricula have made in the development of automatic control systems
(E) strong despite the absence of nonscientific modes of thinking

3. Which of the following statements best illustrates the main point of lines 1-28 of the passage?
(A) When a machine like a rotary engine mal-functions, it is the technologist who is best equipped to repair it.
(B) Each component of an automobile-for ex-ample, the engine or the fuel tank has a shape that has been scientifically determined to be best suited to that component's function
(C) A telephone is a complex instrument designed by technologists using only nonverbal thought
(D) The designer of a new refrigerator should consider the designs of other refrigerators before deciding on its final form.
(E) The distinctive features of a suspension bridge reflect its designer's conceptualization as well as the physical requirements of its site.

4. Which of the following statements would best serve as an introduction to the passage?
(A) The assumption that the knowledge incorporated in technological developments must be derived from science ignores the many nonscientific decisions made by technologists.
(B) Analytical thought is no longer a vital component in the success of technological development.
(C) As knowledge of technology has increased, the tendency has been to lose sight of the important role played by scientific thought in making decisions about form, arrangement, and texture.
(D) A movement in engineering colleges toward a technician's degree reflects a demand for graduates who have the nonverbal reasoning ability that was once common among engineers.
(E) A technologist thinking about a machine, reasoning through the successive steps in a dynamic process, can actually turn the machine over mentally.

5. The author calls the predicament faced by the Historic American Engineering Record "paradoxical" (lines 36-37) most probably because
(A) the publication needed drawings that its own staff could not make
(B) architectural schools offered but did not require engineering design courses for their students
(C) college students were qualified to make the drawings while practicing engineers were not
(D) the drawings needed were so complicated that even students in architectural schools had difficulty making them.
(E) engineering students were not trained to make the type of drawings needed to record the development of their own discipline

6.According to the passage, random failures in automatic control systems are "not merely trivial aberrations" (lines 53) because
(A) automatic control systems are designed by engineers who have little practical experience in the field
(B) the failures are characteristic of systems designed by engineers relying too heavily on concepts in mathematics
(C) the failures occur too often to be taken lightly
(D) designers of automatic control systems have too little training in the analysis of mechanical difficulties
(E) designers of automatic control systems need more help from scientists who have a better understanding of the analytical problems to be solved before such systems can work

7. The author uses the example of the early models of high-speed railroad cars primarily to
(A) weaken the argument that modern engineering systems have major defects because of an absence of design courses in engineering curricula
(B) support the thesis that the number of errors in modern engineering systems is likely to increase
(C) illustrate the idea that courses in design are the most effective means for reducing the cost of designing engineering systems
(D) support the contention that a lack of attention to the nonscientific aspects of design results in poor conceptualization by engineers
(E) weaken the proposition that mathematics is a necessary part of the study of design

Passage 5
One explanation for the tendency of animals to be more vigilant in smaller groups than in larger ones assumes that the vigilant behavior-looking up, for example is aimed at predators. If individuals on the edge of a group are more vigilant because they are at greater risk of being captured, then individuals on average would have to be more vigilant in smaller groups, because the animals on the periphery of a group form a greater proportion of the whole group as the size of the group diminishes.
However, a different explanation is necessary in cases where the vigilant behavior is not directed at predators. J. Krebs has discovered that great blue herons look up more often when in smaller flocks than when in larger ones, solely as a consequence of poor feeding conditions. Krebs hypothesizes that the herons in smaller flocks are watching for herons that they might follow to better feeding pools, which usually attract larger numbers of the birds.

1. It can be inferred from the passage that in species in which vigilant behavior is directed at predators, the tendency of the animals to be more vigilant in smaller groups than in larger ones would most likely be minimized if which of the following were true?
(A) The vigilance of animals on the periphery of a group always exceeded that of animals located in its interior, even when predators were not in the area.
(B) The risk of capture for individuals in a group was the same, whether they were located in the interior of the group or on its periphery.
(C) Animals on the periphery of a group tended to be less capable of defending themselves from attack by predators than animals located in the interior of the group.

2. Which of the following best describes the relationship of the second paragraph to
the first?
(A) The second paragraph relies on different evidence in drawing a conclusion similar to that expressed in the first paragraph.
(B) The second paragraph provides further elaboration on why an assertion made at the end of the first paragraph proves to be true in most cases.
(C) The second paragraph provides additional information in support of a hypothesis stated in the first paragraph.
(D) The second paragraph provides an example of a case in which the assumption described in the first paragraph is unwarranted.

3. It can be inferred from the passage that the author of the passage would be most likely to agree with which of the following assertions about vigilant behavior?
(A) The larger the group of animals, the higher the probability that individuals in the interior of the group will exhibit vigilant behavior.
(B) Vigilant behavior exhibited by individuals in small groups is more effective at warding off predators than the same behavior exhibited by individuals in larger groups.
(C) Vigilant behavior is easier to analyze in species that are preyed upon by many different predators than in species that are preyed upon by relatively few of them.
(D) The term "vigilant," when used in reference to the behavior of animals, does
(E) The term "vigilant, " when used in reference to the behavior of animals, usually refers to behavior exhibited by large groups of animals

4. The passage provides information in support of which of the following assertions?
(A) The avoidance of predators is more important to an animal's survival than is the quest for food.
(B) Vigilant behavior aimed at predators is seldom more beneficial to groups of animals than to individual animals.
(C) Different species of animals often develop different strategies for dealing with predators.
(D) The size of a group of animals does not necessarily reflect its success in finding food.
(E) Similar behavior in different species of animals does not necessarily serve the same purpose.

Passage 1: BEAAD BD
Passage 2: DDAC
Passage 3: EACD
Passage 4: BAEAB BD
Passage 5: BDDE


   	 	 	
			
  ?? > GRE > ?? ?8??

Passage 1
Over the years, biologists have suggested two main pathways by which sexual selection may have shaped the evolution of male bird-song. In the first, male competition and intrasexual selection produce relatively short, simple songs used mainly in territorial behavior. In the second, female choice and intersexual selection produce longer, more complicated songs used mainly in mate attraction; (like such visual ornamentation as the peacock's tail, elaborate vocal characteristics increase the male's chances of being chosen as a mate, and he thus enjoys more reproductive success than his less ostentatious rivals). The two pathways are not mutually exclusive, and we can expect to find examples that reflect their interaction. Teasing them apart has been an important challenge to evolutionary biologists.
Early research confirmed the role of intrasexual selection. In a variety of experiments in the field, males responded aggressively to recorded songs by exhibiting territorial behavior near the speakers. The breakthrough for research into intersexual selection came in the development of a new technique for investigating female response in the laboratory. When female cowbirds raised in isolation in sound-proof chambers were exposed to recordings of male song, they responded by exhibiting mating behavior. By quantifying the responses, researchers were able to determine what particular features of the song were most important. (In further experiments on song sparrows, researchers found that when exposed to a single song type repeated several times or to a repertoire of different song types, females responded more to the latter. The beauty of the experimental design is that it effectively rules out confounding variables; acoustic isolation assures that the female can respond only to the song structure itself).
If intersexual selection operates as theorized, males with more complicated songs should not only attract females more readily but should also enjoy greater reproductive success. At first, however, researchers doing fieldwork with song sparrows found no correlation between larger repertoires and early mating, which has been shown to be one indicator of reproductive success; further, common measures of male quality used to predict reproductive success, such as weight, size, age, and territory, also failed to correlate with song complexity.
The confirmation researchers had been seeking was finally achieved in studies involving two varieties of warblers. Unlike the song sparrow, which repeats one of its several song types in bouts before switching to another, the warbler continuously composes much longer and more variable songs without repetition. For the first time, researchers found a significant correlation between repertoire size and early mating, and they discovered further that repertoire size had a more significant effect than any other measure of male quality on the number of young produced. The evidence suggests that warblers use their extremely elaborate songs primarily to attract females, clearly confirming the effect of intersexual selection on the evolution of birdsong.

1. The passage is primarily concerned with
(A) showing that intrasexual selection has a greater effect on birdsong than does intersexual selection
(B) contrasting the role of song complexity in several species of birds
(C) describing research confirming the suspected relationship between intersexual selection and the complexity of birdsong
(D) demonstrating the superiority of laboratory work over field studies in evolutionary biology
(E) illustrating the effectiveness of a particular approach to experimental design in evolutionary biology

2.The author mentions the peacock's tail in line 8 most probably in order to
(A) cite an exception to the theory of the relationship between intrasexual selection and male competition
(B) illustrate the importance of both of the pathways that shaped the evolution of birdsong
(C) draw a distinction between competing theories of intersexual selection
(D) give an example of a feature that may have evolved through intersexual selection by female choice
(E) refute a commonly held assumption about the role of song in mate attraction

3. According to the passage, which of the following is specifically related to intrasexual selection?
(A) Female choice
(B) Territorial behavior
(C) Complex song types
(D) Large song repertoires
(E) Visual ornamentation

4.Which of the following, if true, would most clearly demonstrate the interaction mentioned in lines 11-13?
(A) Female larks respond similarly both to short, simple songs and to longer, more complicated songs.
(B) Male canaries use visual ornamentation as well as elaborate song repertoires for mate attraction.
(C) Both male and female blackbirds develop elaborate visual and vocal characteristics.
(D) Male jays use songs to compete among themselves and to attract females.
(E) Male robins with elaborate visual ornamentation have as much reproductive success as rivals with elaborate vocal characteristics.

5. The passage indicates that researchers raised female cowbirds in acoustic isolation in order to
(A) eliminate confounding variables
(B) approximate field conditions
(C) measure reproductive success
(D) quantify repertoire complexity
(E) prevent early mating

6. According to the passage, the song sparrow is unlike the warbler in that the song sparrow
(A) uses songs mainly in territorial behavior
(B) continuously composes long and complex songs
(C) has a much larger song repertoire
(D) repeats one song type before switching to another
(E) responds aggressively to recorded songs

7.The passage suggests that the song sparrow experiments mentioned in lines 37-43 failed to confirm the role of intersexnal selection because
(A) females were allowed to respond only to the song structure
(B) song sparrows are unlike other species of birds
(C) the experiments provided no evidence that elaborate songs increased male reproductive success
(D) the experiments included the songs of only a small number of different song sparrows
(E) the experiments duplicated some of the limitations of previous field studies

Passage 2
For many years, Benjamin Quarles' seminal account of the participation of African Americans in the American Revolution has remained the standard work in the field. According to Quarles, the outcome of this conflict was mixed for African American slaves who enlisted in Britain's fight against its rebellious American colonies in return for the promise of freedom: the British treacherously resold many into slavery in the West Indies, while others obtained freedom in Canada and Africa. Building on Quarles' analysis of the latter group, Sylvia Frey studied the former slaves who emigrated to British colonies in Canada. According to Frey, these refugees-the most successful of the African American Revolutionary War participants-viewed themselves as the ideological heirs of the American Revolution. Frey sees this inheritances reflected in their demands for the same rights that the American revolutionaries had demanded from the British: land ownership, limits to arbitrary authority and burdensome taxes, and freedom of religion.

1. According to the passage, which of the following is true about the African American Revolutionary War participants who settled in Canada after the American Revolution?
(A) Although they were politically unaligned with either side, they identified more with British ideology than with American ideology.
(B) While they were not immediately betrayed by the British, they ultimately suffered the same fate as did African American Revolutionary. War participants who were resold into slavery in the West Indies.
(C) They settled in Canada rather than in Africa because of the greater religious freedom available in Canada.
(D) They were more politically active than w-ere African American Revolutionary War participants who settled in Africa.
(E) They were more successful than were African American Revolutionary War participants who settled Africa.

2. Which of the following is most analogous to the relationship between the African American Revolutionary War participants who settled in Canada after the American Revolution and the American revolutionaries, as that relationship is described in the passage?
(A) A brilliant pupil of a great musician rebels against the teacher, but adopts the teacher's musical style after the teacher's unexpected death.
(B) Two warring rulers finally make peace after a lifetime of strife when they realize that they have been duped by a common enemy.
(C) A child who has sided with a domineering parent against a defiant sibling later makes demands of the parent similar to those once made by the sibling.
(D) A writer spends much of her life popularizing the work of her mentor, only to discover late in life that much of the older writer's work is plagiarized from the writings of a foreign contemporary.
(E) Two research scientists spend much of their careers working together toward a common goal, but later quarrel over which of the-m should receive credit for the training of a promising student.

3. The author of the passage suggests that which of the following is true of Benjamin Quarles' work?
(A) It introduced a new and untried research methodology.
(B) It contained theories so controversial that they gave rise to an entire generation of scholarship
(C) It was a pioneering work that has not yet been displaced by subsequent scholarship.
(D) It launched the career of a scholar who later wrote even more important works.
(E) At the time it appeared, its author already enjoyed a well-established reputation in the field.

4. Which of the following can be inferred from the passage concerning Britain's rule in its Canadian colonies after the American Revolution?
(A) Humiliated by their defeat by the Americans, the British sharply curtailed civil rights in their Canadian colonies.
(B) The British largely ignored their Canadian colonies.
(C) The British encouraged the colonization of Canada by those African Americans who had served on the American side as well as by those who had served on the British side.
(D) Some of Britain's policies in its Canadian colonies were similar to its policies in its American colonies before the American Revolution.
(E) To reduce the debt incurred during the war, the British imposed even higher taxes on the Canadian colonists than they had on the American colonists.

Keys:
Passage 1: CDBDA DC
Passage 2: ECCD


